--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.3.5a
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We are updating World of Warcraft with a  minor bug fix patch. For updated 
information regarding the changes made in this patch, please visit the official 
General forum at: 
http://forums.wow-europe.com/board.html?forumId=10001&sid=1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.3.5
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html

Assault on the Ruby Sanctum

   For ages the red dragonflight and its noble matriarch, Alexstrasza
   the Life-Binder, have dedicated themselves to preserving all life on
   Azeroth. Recently, the very heart of this virtuous dragonflight has
   come under threat.

   An eerie silence has settled over the Ruby Sanctum, the red
   dragonflight's sacred lair within the Chamber of the Aspects. This
   troubling development has led to fears that the sanctum, home to
   Azeroth's largest clutch of red dragon eggs, has been breached by an
   unknown, sinister force. If these claims are true and immediate
   action is not taken, the benevolent red dragonflight might be
   crippled forever.

Real ID: A New Way to Connect With Your Friends on Battle.net

   One of our goals for the new Battle.net is to create the framework
   for an online gaming experience that is even more accessible, more
   engaging, and more entertaining than the previous Battle.net. The
   newly released Real ID feature, available to World of Warcraft
   players as part of patch 3.3.5, is an integral part of this effort,
   providing you with advanced ways for forming and maintaining
   meaningful relationships with your friends on the service. 

   Real ID is a completely voluntary and optional level of identity
   that keeps players connected across all of Battle.net. When you and
   a friend mutually agree to become Real ID friends, you'll have
   access to a number of additional features that will enrich your
   social gaming experience in new and exciting ways. More details can
   be found here: http://us.battle.net/realid/?rhtml=y

General

-  The Ruby Sanctum, an all-new 10- and 25-player raid dungeon
   featuring normal and Heroic difficulties, has been added! Players
   will find the dungeon entrance below Wyrmrest Temple in
   Dragonblight. Please note due to the way this patch is being applied
   in all regions, this dungeon will not immediately be available in
   North America. Stay tuned to our General Discussion forum for an
   official announcement on the opening of the Ruby Sanctum:
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?forumId=10001&sid=1
-  The functionality of the Vote Kick feature in the Dungeon Finder
   will now behave differently according to a player’s history with the
   system. Players using the Dungeon Finder who rarely vote to kick
   players from a group, or rarely abandon groups before a dungeon is
   complete, will find that the Vote Kick option will have no cooldown.
   For players who frequently abandon groups or vote to kick other
   players, the Vote Kick option will be kept on a cooldown. This
   functionality will adjust itself as a player’s behavior while using
   the Dungeon Finder changes.

User Interface

-  Chat Frame
   Players can now right-click on any chat type (Whisper, Trade,
   General, Party, Raid, etc.) and choose to move conversation types
   into separate windows. This will move that chat type to a separate
   tab in the Chat frame which can be undocked and moved anywhere on
   the screen. 
   Using the Move to Whisper Window option on a Whisper will place the
   conversation with that player in a separate tab.
   Any time a conversation with another player is put into its own tab,
   the tab will glow when a new message is received.
   Hovering over the Chat Frame and using the mouse wheel will allow
   players to scroll through chat text.
   Players can select Classic Mode under Interface Options to keep the
   Chat Frame functionality closer to what it was prior to patch 3.3.5.
   The Simple Chat User Interface option has been removed.
-  Friends List
   A new icon has been added to the top left of the Chat Frame which
   will open up the Friends list. 
   In addition to its current functionality, the Friends List will now
   allow players to add Battle.net accounts (Real ID). Players will
   have to confirm that they are friends in order for a Real ID to be
   added. Once Real ID friends, players can communicate cross-game,
   cross-faction and cross-realm.
   A new Pending tab has been added where players can accept or decline
   a Real ID friend request, or select the Report Spam or Block
   Communications buttons.
   Players can now select from three statuses which will be visible to
   their friends: Available, Away and Busy.
   A Broadcast window has been added to the top of the frame. Players
   can use this to broadcast a message to all of their Real ID friends
   online. This message will also be displayed under the broadcaster’s
   Real ID information in each friend’s list.
   For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the UI &
   Macros Forum:
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&amp;forumId=11114
   
   
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.3.3a	(2010-03-26)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We are updating World of Warcraft with a  minor bug fix patch. For updated 
information regarding the changes made in this patch, please visit the official 
General forum at: 
http://forums.wow-europe.com/board.html?forumId=10001&sid=1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.3.3	(2010-03-23)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html

PvP

-  The amount of Honor awarded for an Honorable Kill has been increased
   by 100% for characters of all levels. Since all Honor is awarded
   based on a conversion rate from Honorable Kills, this change will
   effectively double the amount of Honor received from Honorable
   Kills, or for completing Battleground and Wintergrasp objectives;
   however, the amount of experience gained from completing
   Battleground objectives and the amount of Honor rewarded for
   completing each Wintergrasp quest remain unchanged.
-  Battlegrounds
-  The Random Battleground system has been added! Similar to the Random
   Dungeon system in the Dungeon Finder, players can now queue for a
   random Battleground. 
   The Random Battleground option can be found in the Battleground tab
   of the PvP frame and is only available for level 80 characters at
   this time.
   If this option is selected, players may not queue for specific
   Battlegrounds and a random Battleground simultaneously.
   Similar to the Random Dungeon system, players will not know for
   which Battleground they are chosen when selected from the queue
   until they zone into the Battleground.
   The Random Battleground option will only allow a group size of 5
   players to queue together.
   Bonus rewards will be offered for choosing the Random Battleground
   option.
   Winning a Battleground using the Random Battleground option for the
   first time in a day will award players with 30 Honorable Kills worth
   of additional Honor currency and 25 Arena points.
   Winning additional Battlegrounds using the Random Battleground
   option after the first random win will award players with 15
   Honorable Kills worth of additional Honor currency.
   Losing a Battleground using the Random Battleground option will
   award players with 5 Honorable Kills worth of additional Honor
   currency.
-  Daily Battleground quests have been removed in place of the Random
   Battleground option.
-  Battlegrounds will no longer award Marks of Honor.
   Players with existing Marks of Honor can still turn them in to their
   respective faction’s quest givers, including individual marks for
   those who may have more marks for one Battleground than another.
   Items which previously required Marks of Honor will have their costs
   adjusted to remove these requirements.
-  Whenever a Battleground has the holiday bonus active, it will now be
   referred to as “Call to Arms” in the Battleground tab and Calendar.
   In addition, Call to Arms Battleground Honor rewards have been
   changed. 
   Choosing a specific Battleground with the Call to Arms bonus active
   will yield the exact same rewards as when choosing the Random
   Battleground option.
   Winning a Call to Arms Battleground for the first time in a day will
   award players with 30 Honorable Kills worth of additional Honor
   currency and 25 Arena points.
   Additional Call to Arms Battleground victories after the first win
   for a player that day will award them with 15 Honorable Kills worth
   of additional Honor currency.
   Losing a Call to Arms Battleground will award players with 5
   Honorable Kills worth of additional Honor currency.
   When using the Random Battleground option, players will not receive
   additional rewards if the Battleground chosen is under the Call to
   Arms bonuses. In addition, the rewards for the first victory of the
   day cannot be earned more than once, regardless of whether or not it
   is obtained from the Random Battleground system or the Call to Arms
   Battleground.
-  Wintergrasp
-  The internal balance system now only changes when a faction achieves
   2 consecutive defenses after an initial capture of Wintergrasp, up
   from 1. More details can be found on our PvP Discussion forum:
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/thread.html?topicId=23329393344

Dungeons & Raids

-  Culling of Stratholme
   Players may now skip the initial introduction dialog to this dungeon
   once they have completed it at least once.
-  Icecrown Citadel
   Blood-Queen Lana’thel: Pact of the Darkfallen now applies damage
   twice as often, but for half the damage. This change will make the
   removal of the spell a bit more responsive.
   Hellscream’s Warsong and Strength of Wrynn now provide their bonuses
   to player pet health and damage, as well as the absorption amounts
   of Power Word: Shield and Sacred Shield.
-  World Event Bosses
   Holiday bosses (such as Ahune for the Fire Festival) will now be
   accessible through the Dungeon Finder. 
   Players must use the Dungeon Finder or speak to special holiday NPCs
   in the world to queue up and access these bosses. 
   Upon accepting a queue for any holiday boss, the party will be
   ported directly to the necessary area for confronting that boss.
   The previous summoning criteria for these bosses have been removed.
   Players can queue up for and fight each World Event boss as many
   times as they want for any standard loot that they may drop. 
   All rare holiday items (such as The Horseman’s Reins) will have a
   chance of being found in holiday-themed loot troves which will drop
   once for each player in the party no more than once per day, in the
   same manner that doing the Random Dungeon daily quest will provide a
   specific reward the first time it is completed in a day.

Classes: General

-  Several raid buffs have had their ranges increased to 100 yards, up
   from 45 yards, to prevent select buffs from repeatedly getting
   applied and removed during highly mobile encounters. Some buffs,
   such as paladin auras, totems, shouts and Blood Pact are
   intentionally meant to have shorter ranges and remain unchanged.

Death Knights

-  Icy Touch: This ability now causes a very high amount of threat
   while the death knight is in Frost Presence.
-  Chains of Ice: The ability now innately applies Frost Fever to a
   target.
-  Rune of Razorice: Now stacks 5 stacks of 2% Frost Vulnerability
   instead of 10 stacks of 1% Frost Vulnerability. Proc chance changed
   to 100%.
-  Talents
-  Blood
   Abomination’s Might: This effect is now passive instead of being a
   proc on certain strikes. Rank 1 is 5% attack power and Rank 2 is 10%
   attack power. The self strength buff remains unchanged.
-  Will of the Necropolis: There is no longer a cooldown on the
   frequency at which this talent can be activated. In addition, this
   ability can now also be triggered by damage which deals less than 5%
   of your health.
-  Frost
   Endless Winter: No longer causes Frost Fever to be applied by Chains
   of Ice, but instead grants 2/4% strength.
-  Icy Talons: The personal haste benefit provided by this talent is no
   longer exclusive with other sources of melee haste. This will allow
   death knights to always swing 4/8/12/16/20% faster when Frost Fever
   is applied. Windfury Totem and the party/raid component of Improved
   Icy Talons still do not stack.
   Improved Icy Talons: This effect is now passive instead of being a
   proc. The self haste buff remains unchanged.
   Nerves of Cold Steel: Now increases off-hand damage by 8/16/25%, up
   from 5/10/15%.
   Unbreakable Armor: The amount of strength granted is now 20%, up
   from 10%.
-  Unholy
   Scourge Strike: Now deals 70% weapon damage, plus 12% of physical
   damage done as shadow damage for each of the death knight’s diseases
   on the target. The net result should be larger strikes with no
   diseases present, while maximum damage with all diseases applied to
   the target should stay the same.
   Unholy Blight: In addition to its previous effects, this talent now
   also prevents diseases from being dispelled from victims afflicted
   by Unholy Blight.

Druids

-  Nature’s Grasp: Now has 3 charges, up from 1.
-  Talents
-  Balance
   Starfall: The damage done by this spell has been significantly
   increased.
   Typhoon: Mana cost reduced to 25%, down from 32%.
-  Feral Combat
   Mangle: The debuff from this talent now lasts 60 seconds, up from
   12 seconds.

Hunters

-  Talents
-  Beast Mastery
   Ferocious Inspiration: This ability is now an aura and provides
   1/2/3% damage to all party or raid members within 100 yards and
   boosts the damage of Steady Shot by 3/6/9%.
-  Pet Talents
   Heart of the Phoenix: Cooldown reduced to 8 minutes, down from 10
   minutes.

Mages

-  Frostbolt: Spell power scaling on this spell has been increased by
   approximately 5%.
-  Talents
-  Arcane
   Arcane Empowerment: This effect is now passive instead of being a
   proc off of critical strikes. The self damage buff remains
   unchanged.
   Incanter’s Absorption: This talent now only grants additional spell
   power when damage is absorbed by Mana Shield, Frost Ward, Fire Ward,
   or Ice Barrier. The limit of 5% of the mage’s health on the spell
   power buff has been removed.
-  Fire
   Burning Soul: Threat reduction is now 10/20%, up from 5/10%.
   Combustion: The cooldown on this spell is now 2 minutes, down from 3
   minutes.
   Empowered Fire: This talent now also applies to Pyroblast damage.
   Torment the Weak: This talent now also applies to Pyroblast damage.
-  Frost	
   Brain Freeze: This talent now allows your next Fireball or Frostfire
   Bolt to be instant and cost no mana. There is a small internal
   cooldown to keep the Frostfire Bolt from immediately triggering
   Brain Freeze again.

Priests

-  Talents
-  Discipline
   Renewed Hope: now has a 60-second duration, up from 20 seconds, but
   a 15-second cooldown.

Rogues

-  Rupture: The damage-over-time component of this ability can now
   produce critical strikes.
-  Talents
-  Subtlety
   Filthy Tricks: Now Reduces the cooldown by 5/10 seconds and energy
   cost by 5/10 of Tricks of the Trade, Distract and Shadowstep
   abilities, and reduces the cooldown of Preparation by 1.5/3 minutes.
   Ghostly Strike: If the rogue has a dagger equipped, this ability
   now deals 180% weapon damage instead of 125%.
   Hemorrhage: If the rogue has a dagger equipped, this ability now
   deals 160% weapon damage instead of 110%.
   Serrated Blades: This talent now allows the rogue to ignore up to
   3/6/9% of the target’s armor, rather than a fixed amount of armor
   ignored per level of the rogue.
   Slaughter from the Shadows: Now adds 1/2/3/4/5% damage to all
   attacks and reduces the energy cost of Backstab and Ambush by
   4/8/12/16/20, up from 3/6/9/12/15.
   Waylay: The debuff from this talent can now be caused by Backstab in
   addition to Ambush and can be triggered by all hits from these
   abilities rather than just critical strikes, but the snare component
   is now 50%, down from 70%.

Shaman

-  Flame Shock: The damage-over-time component of this ability can now
   produce critical strikes and is affected by spell haste.
-  Talents
-  Elemental Combat
   Elemental Oath: This ability is now always on as a passive aura.
-  Enhancement
   Unleashed Rage: This ability is now always on as a passive aura.

Warlocks

-  Immolate: The damage-over-time component of this spell can now
   produce critical strikes.
-  Life Tap: This spell no longer scales with spirit, and instead
   scales with spell power.
-  Talents
-  Affliction
   Dark Pact: This ability no longer requires line-of-sight with the
   summoned demon, and the range has been increased from 30 yards to
   100 yards.
-  Demonology
   Demonic Pact: This effect now has a 45-second duration, up from 12
   seconds, and a 20-second internal cooldown.

Warriors

-  Revenge: Damage done by this ability (base and scaling) increased by
   50%.
-  Thunderclap: This ability now counts as a ranged attack, granting it
   double damage on critical strikes instead of 150% and ranged miss
   chance, and still cannot be dodged or parried.
-  Talents
-  Arms
   Bladestorm: Warriors can now be Disarmed while under the effects of
   this ability.
   Trauma: The debuff from this talent now lasts 60 seconds, up from 15
   seconds.
-  Fury
   Rampage: This effect is now passive instead of being a proc from
   critical strikes.
-  Protection
   Improved Revenge: This talent can no longer trigger a stun, and
   instead causes Revenge to strike an additional target for 50/100% of
   Revenge’s damage.
   Vitality: Now boosts Stamina by 3/6/9%, up from 2/4/6%. Strength and
   expertise benefits have not changed.

Items

-  Frozo the Renowned has moved into the Dalaran Magus Commerce
   Exchange and will be trading your Frozen Orbs for various other
   trade goods.
-  Glyphs
-  Death Knights
   Glyph of Disease: When this glyph causes Frost Fever to be
   refreshed, it will now also trigger a refresh of Icy Talons.
   Glyph of Icebound Fortitude: Now always grants at least 40% damage
   reduction.
-  Druids
   Glyph of Focus: Now increases the damage done by Starfall by 10%,
   down from 20%.
   Glyph of Mangle: This glyph now provides 10% increased damage done
   by Mangle instead of increasing the duration of the debuff.
-  Mages
   Glyph of Fireball: No longer increases critical strike chance of
   Fireball. Instead, it now reduces the cast time of Fireball by 0.15
   seconds.
-  Priests
   Glyph of Scourge Imprisonment: Now reduces the cast time of Shackle
   Undead by 1 second, up from 0.5 seconds.
-  Rogues
   Glyph of Deadly Throw: Now increases the slowing effect on Deadly
   Throw by 20%, up from 10%.
   Glyph of Expose Armor: Now increases the duration of Expose Armor by
   12 seconds, up from 10 seconds.
   Glyph of Feint: Now reduces the energy cost of Feint by 20, up from
   10.
-  Mechanostriders: Summoning any of these mounts is now perfectly
   mechanical-sounding!
-  Priest Tier-10 4-Piece Healing Set Bonus: Redesigned. This bonus now
   increases the effectiveness of the caster's Power Word: Shield  by
   5% and Circle of Healing by 10%.
-  Shaman Tier-10 4-Piece Elemental set Bonus: This bonus has been
   slightly adjusted to account for the fact that haste now modifies
   Flame Shock's periodic damage ticks. The bonus now makes the
   shaman's Lava Burst cause Flame Shock to tick at least two
   additional times before expiring.

Professions

-  Runed Orbs: Recipes which require this item have had their material
   requirements significantly reduced.
-  Engineering
   The Pet Bombling and Lil' Smoky non-combat pets are no longer
   Bind-on-Pickup.
-  Fishing
   The “Monsterbelly Appetite” daily fishing quest has changed so it
   now takes place outside the Violet Hold in Dalaran. The quest still
   requires a Severed Arm and has been renamed to "Disarmed!"
-  Inscription
   Most recipes that required 2 inks now only require 1.
-  Mining
   Titansteel Bar: Creating this item no longer results in a cooldown.
-  Tailoring
   Glacial Bag: Creating this item now invokes a 7-day cooldown.
   The cooldown and location requirements have been removed from
   creating Moonshroud, Spellweave and Ebonweave.

Quests

-  Many quests which require vehicles have had their vehicle mechanics
   updated and improved in the interest of fun.

User Interface

-  All Alert pop-ups now have new and fresh Alert icons.
-  Auction House
   If the Auction House on a realm is unavailable for any reason, an
   alert will pop up informing players who attempt to access it.
   Players can now Right-Click to place an item in the Auction frame.
   Entire stacks of a specific item type can be placed in the Auction
   frame and several options have been added for choosing how to list
   auctions.
   Stack Size: If a stack of items has been added to the Auction frame,
   players can select the size of the stack they wish to sell. If an
   invalid stack size is entered (i.e. a stack of 21 Saronite Ore), the
   Create Auction button will be grayed out.
   Number of Stacks: In addition to selecting the size of a stack,
   players can select how many stacks of an item they wish to sell
   (i.e. if a player has a total of 43 Saronite Ore in the Auction
   frame, they can choose to list 2 stacks of 20, 4 stacks of 10, 8
   stacks of 5, 43 stacks of 1, etc. If the number and amount of stacks
   listed results in a remainder, the left-over items will be placed
   back in the player’s bags automatically).
   Stack Size and Number of Stacks are linked mathematically so that
   altering the variables of one may automatically calculate the amount
   of the other (i.e. if a player puts 20 in the Stack Size field and
   43 Saronite Ore are in the Auction frame, the Number of Stacks field
   will change to 2 by default. If a player only wishes to sell one
   stack of 20 Saronite Ore, the Number of Stacks field can be manually
   changed to 1).
   Price: Players can now choose to input the price of an item Per
   Stack or Per Item by selecting either option from a pull-down. If
   Per Item is selected and a player is selling a stack of that item,
   the Auction House will multiply the selected Per Item price by the
   amount of that item in the stack. If Per Stack is selected, the
   player can enter the total price he or she wishes to charge for each
   stack of that item being listed.
   Auction Post Completion Bar: If multiple items or stacks of items
   are being listed at once by a player, a Posting completion bar will
   appear showing the total progress of each individual auction being
   listed once the Create Auction button is selected. The greater the
   number of individual listings being made in a single press of the
   Create Auction button, the longer this process will take. Players
   can still browse the Auction House while the Posting completion bar
   is in progress, but moving around will interrupt the progress,
   similar to moving while attempting to create multiple bandages with
   First Aid. Just as with creating bandages, auctions that were
   completed prior to the character moving or otherwise canceling the
   action will successfully be listed.
-  Dungeon Finder
   The Deserter debuff given to players who leave a dungeon prematurely
   when queuing via the Random Dungeon option has been increased to 30
   minutes, up from 15 minutes. The cooldown for using the Random
   Dungeon option remains 15 minutes.
   The Random Dungeon cooldown is no longer displayed as a debuff.
   Instead, players will see the cooldown time remaining displayed in
   the Dungeon Finder window when Random Dungeon or Random Heroic
   Dungeon is selected from the pull-down.
   If a player in your party has the Deserter debuff, or is on cooldown
   from the Random Dungeon option, his or her character name will be
   displayed in the Dungeon Finder window listed as “On Cooldown,”
   preventing the group from queuing.
   Anyone in a dungeon party can now re-queue their group for a
   dungeon, as players will still be prompted whether or not to accept
   their chosen role.
   Players who use the Vote Kick option will now be prompted to provide
   a reason for kicking a party member. This reason will be presented
   to everyone in the party except for the person voted to be kicked.
   When joining as a group, more generous level requirements will be
   used instead of Random Dungeon level requirements so that players of
   different levels joining together will be eligible for a greater
   number of dungeons.
   Parties randomly created via the Dungeon Finder will always be
   arranged in the party interface from top to bottom in the following
   order: tank, healer, damage, damage, damage.
   If a random party is created via the Dungeon Finder and a player
   cannot roll Need on an item, a reason will now be provided.
-  Authenticator Frame: If a player has a Battle.net Authenticator
   attached to his or her account and selects Remember Account Name at
   the login screen, the next time that player logs into World of
   Warcraft, a field to input the Authenticator code will be displayed
   below the password field.
-  The World Map will now provide an option to display different levels
   of a multi-layered dungeon, zone, or city (i.e. players can view the
   map of the Dalaran Sewers without having to be in that location).
-  Quest Tracking Feature
   The Quest Tracking Objectives Frame can now be widened via the
   Interface Options menu.
   The short description for a tracked quest is now displayed on the
   Map in the quest pane.
   Quest items in a player’s inventory which begin quests now each have
   an exclamation point overlaid on their icons to make them more
   easily identifiable.
   If a player selects Track Low Level Quests, the quest objectives
   will no longer appear dim on the Map, nor will the exclamation
   points appear dim over NPC heads or on the Mini-Map.
   Objectives Frame
   The Objectives Frame will now list the number of quests displayed at
   the top. In addition, players can now click on the word "Objectives"
   at the top of the Objectives Frame for a list of sorting and
   filtering options which will determine how quests are ordered. Any
   quests or achievements filtered or sorted out of the Objectives
   Frame are still being tracked and are simply hidden in this frame.
   Sorting
   Sort by most difficult quests.
   Sort by least difficult quests.
   Sort by quests closest in proximity to the player (this will
   automatically update as players travel around).
   Manual sorting: This allows players to Right-Click on each quest
   name in the Objectives Frame and determine in what order they should
   be placed.
   Filtering
   Toggle achievement tracking.
   Toggle completed quest tracking.
   Toggle tracking quest objectives in other zones.
   Players can now Shift + Click on a quest objective or check the
   Track Quest box on the Map to track a quest in the Objectives Frame.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the
   UI & Macros Forum: 
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&amp;forumId=11114

Achievements

-  Players that met the criteria for Hero of Shattrath prior to the
   release of Wrath of the Lich King will now be awarded this
   achievement.
-  Alterac Valley: When players kill an enemy in the Field of Strife
   before their enemy dismounts, they will now be correctly awarded
   The Sickly Gazelle.

Technical

-  Frame Rate: A maximum capacity of 200 frames per second has been
   added. To disable the frame rate limit, the following line should be
   added to the Config.wtf file: SET maxFPS "0".

Bug Fixes

-  Achievements
   Last Man Standing: This achievement can no longer be earned in a
   skirmish match.
-  Classes
-  Death Knights
   Blood Plague: Applying this disease can no longer separately trigger
   effects from weapons.
   Bloodworms now correctly gain the death knight’s hit rating.
   Death Pact: Fixed a bug where Death Pact would not kill the ghoul
   while under the effects of Cyclone.
   Frost Fever: Applying this disease can no longer separately trigger 
   effects from weapons.
   Frost Presence: Tooltip corrected to indicate the ability increases
   stamina by 8%.
   Hysteria: The buff from this ability is now properly considered an
   Enrage for the purposes of warriors using such abilities as Enraged
   Regeneration.
   Icebound Fortitude: Tooltip corrected to indicate it reduces damage
   by a minimum of 30%.
   Improved Frost Presence: This talent now grants 4/8% stamina when
   the death knight is in Unholy and Blood Presences to match the 8%
   from Frost Presence.
   Raise Dead: It is no longer possible when this ability is used in
   conjunction with temporary pets from quests for the ability to get
   permanently stuck on cooldown.
   Rime: Dual wielding will no longer grant two chances to proc this
   effect from Obliterate.
   Rune Strike: This ability can now proc Necrosis and Blood-Caked
   Blade.
   Wandering Plague: No longer damages secondary targets affected by
   Repentance.
-  Druids
   Cower: This ability can no longer trigger effects on items that
   trigger from melee weapon attacks.
   Frenzied Regeneration: This ability is no longer noted as Rank 1
   (it has no subsequent ranks).
   Hurricane: If a druid begins casting this spell while in Bear Form,
   Dire Bear Form, or Cat Form, the spell will now cast as normal
   instead of immediately canceling the channel.
   Lifebloom: The final bloom heal from this spell can no longer
   trigger talents, trinkets, and set bonuses for the player being
   healed.
   Rake: This ability will now always land. It will no longer sometimes
   give a “more powerful spell” error message.
   Tier-10 Balance 4-Piece Set Bonus: Corrected a grammatical error in
   tooltip.
   Tier-10 Restoration 4-Piece Set Bonus: The Rejuvenation effect
   caused by this set bonus can now be overwritten by the druid’s own
   Rejuvenation spell casts. In addition, the combat log tooltip for
   this Rejuvenation effect no longer spuriously claims it requires
   Tree of Life Form.
   Tranquility: The combat log tooltip for this ability will no longer
   spuriously claim a range of 100 yards.
   Tree of Life Form: Corrected a misspelling in the tooltip.
   Typhoon: Lower ranks of this spell displayed incorrect damage
   information on tooltips.
-  Hunters
   Explosive Trap: Low ranks of this ability were receiving no bonus
   damage from attack power. That has been corrected.
   Immolation Trap: Tooltips for lower ranks should now display more
   accurate damage.
   Rapid Fire: Now triggers the global cooldown correctly.
   Sniper Training: Reduced the time it takes to gain this effect so
   with lag it will feel more consistent with the 6 seconds stated in
   the tooltip.
   Lock and Load: Fixed a bug where Lock and Load always proc’d 100% of
   the time from the first tick of Explosive Trap and never from
   additional ticks. It should now be 6% as advertised.
   Master’s Call: This ability will now function correctly when the pet
   is affected by one of a death knight’s diseases.
   Mortal Shots: This talent was not correctly buffing Serpent Sting by
   the full amount.
-  Mages
   Arcane Empowerment: Fixed a bug preventing Rank 3 from granting 3%
   damage.
   Burning Determination: This talent will no longer sometimes have its
   effect removed by the same spell that triggered it.
   Dragon’s Breath: Druids can no longer remove the disorientation
   effect from this spell by canceling their current shapeshift.
   Enduring Winter: Tooltip corrected to match actual Replenishment
   mana regeneration numbers.
   Fingers of Frost: Mages with Molten Armor active who have the
   Shatter talent will no longer lose Fingers of Frost charges when
   Molten Armor causes reactive damage. In addition, the effect from
   this talent now displays the number of charges on the buff icon.
-  Paladins
   Ardent Defender: The debuff from this talent being recently
   triggered is now removed upon entering an Arena match.
   Avenger’s Shield: Once again does not strike secondary targets
   affected by Repentance.
   Benediction: This talent no longer reduces the mana cost of Seal of
   Righteousness by twice the intended amount.
   Blessing of Sanctuary: It is no longer sometimes possible to have a
   buff icon from both Blessing of Sanctuary and Greater Blessing of
   Sanctuary (the second buff had no effect).
   Divine Guardian: This talent will no longer incorrectly modify the
   tooltip of Sacred Shield.
   Lay On Hands: Tooltip clarified to better explain this ability’s
   interactions with Divine Shield, Divine Protection, and Hand of
   Protection.
   Repentance: This ability now clears Righteous Vengeance from its
   target when cast.
   Sacred Duty: Tooltip corrected to indicate increases Stamina by
   2/4%.
   Sanctified Retribution: Fixed a bug preventing this ability from
   extending its benefit to the full radius of the paladin’s auras.
   Swift Retribution: Fixed a bug preventing this ability from
   extending its benefit to the full radius of the paladin’s auras.
   Tier-4 Protection 2-Piece Set Bonus: Tooltip no longer refers to
   Seal of Blood and now correctly states that it also affects Seal of
   Corruption.
   Tier-4 Retribution 4-Piece Set Bonus: Tooltip revised to indicate
   the set bonus increases the damage of all Judgements.
-  Priests
   Devouring Plague: The instant damage from this spell was not
   correctly healing the caster and has been fixed.
   Divine Spirit: Fixed a bug preventing this spell from overwriting
   Prayer of Spirit correctly.
   Tier-10 Shadow 4-Piece Bonus: This set bonus will no longer cause
   the tooltip for Mind Flay to display incorrectly.
   Lightwell: Tooltip change to reflect that any friendly player can
   use the Lightwell.
   Renewed Hope: Applying this spell no longer causes combat pet
   abilities to trigger a global cooldown.
   Unstable Affliction: The feedback damage from when this spell is
   dispelled is now affected by resilience as intended.
-  Rogues
   Tricks of the Trade: Now works properly on targets below level 65.
   Also fixed a bug where the threat transfer would not happen sometimes.
   Feint: This ability can no longer proc poisons.
   Master Poisoner; Now correctly reduces the duration of a sting
   refreshed by Chimera Shot.
-  Shamans
   Earthliving Weapon: Fixed a bug where the glyph was not boosting
   Earthliving proc chance.
   Earth’s Grasp: This talent now correctly affects the radius of the
   Earthgrab from the Storm, Earth, and Fire talent.
   Ghost Wolf: Summoning this pet no longer sometimes triggers items
   which are triggered by casting healing spells.
   Hex: The hunter ability Deterrence can no longer be used while
   Hexed.
   Lightning Overload: No longer triggers the cooldown for Chain
   Lightning.
   Thundering Strikes: You can now correctly receive this bonus if you
   do not have a weapon equipped.
   Tier-8 Elemental 2-Piece Set Bonus: Now increases the periodic
   damage done by Flame Shock by 20%.
   Tier-10 Restoration 2-Piece Set Bonus: Rapid Currents will no longer
   be consumed if Nature’s Swiftness is already active.
   Tier-10 Restoration 4-Piece Set Bonus: The heal-over-time effect
   from this set bonus now works correctly with the weapon Val’anyr,
   Hammer of Ancient Kings. In addition, to prevent confusion, the
   heal-over-time effect has been renamed Chained Heal.
-  Warlocks
   Conflagrate: Fixed a bug where Glyph of Conflagrate caused
   Conflagrate to consume both Conflagrate and Shadowflame.
   Curse of the Elements: This debuff is now removed upon entering an
   Arena match.
   Demonic Empowerment: Fixed a bug preventing the succubus effect from
   breaking stuns.
   Demonic Pact: The priest spell Prayer of Spirit will no longer
   sometimes prevent party and raid members from benefitting from this
   warlock talent.
   Everlasting Affliction: Warlocks with the Glyph of Quick Decay
   active will now benefit correctly from that glyph when this talent
   refreshes the duration of Corruption.
   Fel Armor: Various trinkets that trigger from healing can no longer
   be triggered by the healing caused by this armor.
   Unstable Affliction: Tooltip clarified to state that this spell is
   exclusive with Immolate.
-  Warriors
   Deep Wounds: The damage from this talent is now affected by
   resilience as intended.
   Devastate: Using this ability with a shield equipped and no weapon
   will now properly apply the Sunder Armor debuff.
   Gag Order: This talent now works correctly when a warrior uses
   Shield Bash on a mage with Burning Determination active. Burning
   Determination will be removed and not reapplied.
   Shattering Throw: This ability can now be a critical strike.
   Spell Reflection: Using this ability to reflect a Mind Flay now
   always properly consumes the Spell Reflection buff.
   Tier-10 Arms/Fury 4-Piece Bonus: This set bonus now correctly
   reduces the global cooldowns of the affected abilities as described
   in its tooltip.
   Tier-10 Protection 4-Piece Bonus: The tooltip has been corrected to
   indicate Stoicism reduces all types of damage taken, not just
   physical damage. In addition, the combat log tooltip no longer
   lists a 1-second cooldown.
-  Pets
   Glyphs which modify a pet’s stats in any way will now force a
   recalculation of the pet’s stats when they are equipped or
   unequipped.
-  Dungeons & Raids
-  Caverns of Time: Players in Old Hillsbrad Foothills, The Black
   Morass, and The Culling of Stratholme can no longer use some
   costumes and disguises. You’re supposed to be blending in here, not
   calling attention to yourselves! (This prevents some instances where
   such costumes permanently removed the Human Illusion or caused it to
   go haywire).
-  Halls of Stone: Fixed a bug that caused Brann Bronzebeard to not
   properly initiate the Tribunal event after he has died and
   respawned.
-  Icecrown Citadel
   Precious and Stinky will now summon players who attempt to cause
   them to evade.
   Fixed a bug that caused The Lich King encounter to sometimes not
   reset when the raid party wiped.
   Goblin Rocket Pack: Using this item will now remove all the
   shapeshift forms triggered by Deathbringer’s Will and allow use of
   the item (previously players would have to click off the shapeshift
   in order to be allowed to use this item).
-  Items
   Black Bruise: Tooltip clarified to indicate this item triggers only
   from melee weapon attacks.
   Darkmoon Card: Berserker!: This trinket is now triggered properly by
   ranged white attacks.
   Deathbringer’s Will: Players can no longer mount with any of the
   shapeshifts from this item active.
   Dislodged Foreign Object: This trinket can no longer be triggered by
   Power Word: Shield.
   Eye of the Broodmother: This trinket can now only be triggered by
   damage and healing spells.
-  Glyphs
   Death Knights
   Glyph of Dark Death: The tooltip on this glyph now also mentions it
   increases the healing effect from Death Coil as well. Functionality
   was unchanged.
   Glyph of Disease: When this glyph causes Frost Fever’s duration to
   be refreshed, it now also causes the benefit of Icy Talons to be
   refreshed.
   Glyph of Icebound Fortitude: Tooltip corrected to indicate it
   increases damage reduction to a minimum of 40%.
   Glyph of Obliterate: Equipping this glyph will no longer cause its
   own tooltip to show a spuriously increased number.
   Glyph of Unbreakable Armor: Equipping this glyph will no longer
   cause its own tooltip to show a spuriously increased number.
-  Priests
   Glyph of Power Word: Shield: The heal produced from this glyph is
   now more correctly treated as a heal for purposes of procing effects
   that are caused by heals, such as Divine Aegis and the weapon
   Trauma.
   Glyph of Prayer of Healing: This glyph will now always heal all
   affected targets by the correct amount.
-  Shamans
   Glyph of Flametongue Weapon: Now updates the tooltip of Flametongue
   Weapon when equipped.
-  Warlocks
   Glyph of Siphon Life: This glyph will now correctly update the
   combat log and talent tooltips for Siphon Life. Functionality has
   not changed.
   Heartpierce: Tooltip clarified to indicate this item triggers only
   from melee weapon attacks.
   Last Word: Tooltip clarified to indicate this item triggers only
   from melee weapon attacks.
   Mounts: If a player attempts to get on a mount while affected by a
   shapeshift that cannot mount, they will now get the error message:
   "You can't mount while affected by that shapeshift," instead of “You
   can’t do that right now.”
   Multi-Passenger Mounts: Players can no longer get on these mounts as
   a second or third passenger while those players are in combat.
   Needle-Encrusted Scorpion: Volley and Explosive Shot can now
   properly trigger this trinket.
   Nibelung: The tooltip for the Smite spell cast by the Val’kyr
   Protectors summoned from this item now indicates that the Smite
   spell also heals the Val’kyr Protectors.
   Potions: All the buffs from potions that were incorrectly considered
   magic effects and thus dispellable by Dispel Magic are no longer
   considered magic.
   Shadowmourne: Tooltip clarified to indicate this item triggers only
   from melee weapon attacks.
   Talisman of Volatile Power: Now triggered correctly by Penance when
   Penance is used offensively.
   Totem of Quaking Earth: The Volcanic Fury buff triggered by this
   item now has a detailed combat log tooltip.
-  PvP
-  Battlegrounds
   End of Match: Various effects that impaired movement, caused loss of
   control, rooted, or stunned a player were persisting past the end of
   the Battleground. They are all now removed on exiting the
   Battleground.
-  User Interface
   Combat Log: Activated abilities that appeared in Floating Combat
   Text (such as Slam!, Art of War, Eclipse, etc.) will now appear
   properly in the Combat Log, and only appear once in the Floating
   Combat Text.
   Players can now roll Disenchant on Unique items they already have in
   their inventory.
   When speaking to an NPC for which a player has 2 or more quests and
   not all of them are complete, the incomplete quests will now
   correctly show as a gray question marks in the dialog box. In
   addition, repeatable quests will be properly colored as blue
   exclamation points or question marks in the dialog box for NPCs with
   multiple quests available, or for which the player has multiple
   quests in progress or completed.
   Minimizing the game client while auto-following another player
   character will no longer cancel the follow command.

Known Issues

-  Life Tap: The tooltip for this ability incorrectly states that the
   health lost is modified by spirit. Health loss is fixed and does not
   get increased by the Warlock’s spirit.
   
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.3.2	(2010-01-26)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html

Dungeons & Raids

-  Halls of Stone
   Brann Bronzebeard has been getting into shape and now feels
   comfortable walking faster when escorted.
-  The Forge of Souls
   The Devourer of Souls will now cast Mirrored Souls less often.
   The Spell Reflect ability has been altered on several creatures. It
   now has a cast time, only has 2 charges, and has a 75% chance of
   reflecting spells.
-  The Nexus
   Anomalus will now use the Create Rift ability only once, down from 3
   times.
-  The Old Kingdom
   Elder Nadox now only gets one Ahn’Kahar Guardian during the
   encounter.
   Jadoga Shadowseeker now only ascends once during the encounter.
   Several enemies between the Befouled Terrace and The Desecrated
   Altar have been removed or had their pathing altered.
-  Pit of Saron
   Players can now zone back into the instance if they are dead while
   encounters with Krick and Ick or Forgemaster Garfrost are in
   progress.
-  Utgarde Pinnacle
   Skadi the Ruthless can now be removed from his drake with 3 harpoon
   strikes, down from 5.
   Svala Sorrowgrave now casts Ritual of the Sword 1 time during the
   encounter, down from 3.
-  Vault of Archavon
   Toravon, the latest boss to join the Vault’s giants and masters of
   the elements, is now accepting challengers in 10- and 25-player
   formats.
-  The Violet Hold
   The time between a boss being defeated and a new portal opening has
   been decreased.

PvP

-  Arenas
   Season 8 has officially begun featuring all-new rewards!

Druids

-  Talents
-  Balance
   Earth and Moon: This talent now increases the druid’s spell damage
   by 2/4/6%, up from 1/2/3%.

Shamans

-  Talents
-  Elemental Combat
   Shamanism: This talent now provides 4/8/12/16/20% extra spell damage
   to Lightning Bolt/Chain Lightning, up from 3/6/9/12/15%, and
   5/10/15/20/25% to Lava Burst, up from 4/8/12/16/20%.

Warlocks

-  Talents
-  Affliction
   Shadow Embrace: This effect can now stack up to 3 times, up from 2.
   However, the periodic healing reduction effect has been reduced
   from 3/6/9/12/15% to 2/4/6/8/10% per application.
-  Demonology
   Demonic Pact: The damage bonus granted the warlock by this talent
   has been increased from 1/2/3/4/5% to 2/4/6/8/10%. The buff granted
   to a raid or party by this talent remains unchanged. 
-  Destruction
   Conflagrate: The damage-over-time effect of Conflagrate has been 
   increased to 40% of the spell’s total damage, up from 20%.
   Empowered Imp: The pet bonus damage provided by this talent has been
   increased to 10/20/30%, up from 5/10/15%.
   Improved Shadow Bolt: Damage done by Shadow Bolt increased by
   2/4/6/8/10%, up from 1/2/3/4/5%.

Warriors

-  Talents
-  Protection
   Shield Slam: The damage scaling from block value for this ability
   now diminishes faster and diminishes starting at a lower block
   value. The difference should be negligible for players in high-end
   tanking armor. In addition, the threat caused by Shield Slam has
   been increased by 30%.
   Warbringer: This talent no longer allows Charge and Intercept to
   break roots or snares. Intervene remains unaffected.

User Interface

-  The party leader is now referred to as Guide in chat when a group is
   formed via the Dungeon Finder.
-  Fixed a bug where players with Raid Assist capabilities were unable
   to perform a Ready Check.
-  Fixed a bug where the first couple of tutorials were not displaying
   upon logging into the game.

Items

-  New strength-based melee DPS rings are now available from
   representatives of the Ashen Verdict.
-  Tier-10 Elemental Shaman 4-Piece Set Bonus: Redesigned. Successful
   Lava Burst casts now increase the duration of Flame Shock on the
   target by 6 seconds.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.3.0a	(2009-12-14)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We are updating World of Warcraft with a  minor bug fix patch. For updated 
information regarding the changes made in this patch, please visit the official 
General forum at: 
http://forums.wow-europe.com/board.html?forumId=10001&sid=1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.3.0	(2009-12-08)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html

Icecrown Citadel: The Frozen Halls

   Looming over the stark wastes of Northrend, Icecrown Citadel awaits
   those who would see the Lich King and his Scourge brought low and
   the threat they pose wiped from the face of Azeroth. The heroes who
   venture within will face some of the greatest horrors yet seen. But
   before you burst into the front gate of the citadel, an alternate
   means of entry beckons. Journey through three separate wings of the
   new five-player dungeon, Icecrown Citadel: The Frozen Halls, and
   follow Jaina Proudmoore or Sylvanas Windrunner into the Lich King's
   domain.

Icecrown Citadel: The Frozen Throne

   All across Northrend, many battles have been fought against the vile
   Scourge. Countless lives have been lost since the Alliance and the
   Horde first reached these frozen wastes, but the champions of
   Azeroth continue to march forward -- and Icecrown Citadel, the
   cornerstone of the Scourge's power and the home base of the Lich
   King, is their final target. Tirion Fordring and the Argent Crusade
   have forged an accord with Darion Mograine and the Knights of the
   Ebon Blade to form the Ashen Verdict. This coalition's strongest
   combatants, along with the champions of the Alliance and the Horde,
   will lead the charge against the citadel. In the new Icecrown
   Citadel raid dungeon, Azeroth's mightiest will face terrifying
   challenges before ascending to the Frozen Throne, where the Lich
   King and his runeblade, Frostmourne, await to deliver the heroes to
   their deaths.... 

Cross-Realm Dungeon Finder

   The Dungeon Finder is now available, providing players with quick
   and easy access to five-player parties. This feature connects all
   realms within a battlegroup using an advanced matchmaking system,
   making it easier for players of all levels to find a dungeon group.
   In addition, players can reap additional rewards through the Dungeon
   Finder by choosing the Random option, which is available to both
   pick-up and pre-formed groups. Check out the User Interface section
   for more details.

Getting Started and Quest Tracking

   A number of changes have been made to World of Warcraft's
   introductory experience, including updated character and class
   information at the character-selection screen, more robust tooltips
   with images, improved health and mana regeneration at lower levels,
   and adjustments to various classes designed to make it easier for
   players to get started. In addition, all-new quest-tracking features
   have been added to assist players in finding objectives, including
   new interface functionality in the quest log, the map ("M" key), and
   the Objectives pane.

General

-  Icecrown Citadel
   Three separate 5-player dungeons – The Forge of Souls, Pit of Saron,
   and Halls of Reflection – containing all new challenges and missions
   of discovery, await players in normal and Heroic modes.
   10- and 25-player challenges await players in Icecrown Citadel. Only
   when all challenges have been overcome in the raid dungeon can
   players unlock hard modes for individual bosses. For more
   information on how the Icecrown Citadel raid content will be made
   available, please visit our Dungeons & Raids forum:
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?forumId=11126&sid=1
-  Character Creation: The descriptions for races, classes, and race/
   class combinations have been improved to provide new players with a
   better idea of the roles and advantages of each class and race.
-  Dazed: Creatures attacking a player from behind can no longer cause
   players level 1-5 to be dazed, and have a reduced chance to cause
   players level 6-10 to be dazed.
-  Knockbacks no longer dismount players. If on a flying mount, you
   will be knocked back a short distance before being able to resume
   flying.
-  The existing /welcome emote now greets/welcomes targets (character
   says “hello”), while the new /yw is for saying "you're welcome."
-  Many of the tail sweeps with knockback effects will no longer hit
   players’ pets.
-  Level 1 characters no longer start with food or water in their
   inventory.
-  Attack is now called Auto Attack. The tooltip has been changed to
   reflect that the player will continue automatically attacking a
   target.
-  Meeting Stones: To use any Meeting Stone, it is only required that
   the character’s minimum level be 15. There is no maximum character
   level requirement for any Meeting Stone.

Classes: General

-  Area-of-Effect Damage Caps: We’ve redesigned the way area damage is
   capped when hitting many targets. Instead of a hard cap on total
   damage done, the game now caps the total damage done at a value
   equal to the damage the spell would do if it hit 10 targets. In
   other words, if a spell does 1000 damage to each target, it would
   hit up to 10 targets for 1000 each, but with more than 10 targets,
   each target would take 1000 damage divided by the number of targets.
   20 targets would be hit for 500 damage each in that example.
-  Attack: Level 1 druids, mages, priests, and warlocks will no longer
   start with the Attack button placed on their action bars by default.
-  Default Equipment: Starting weapons are now more uniform. Rogues now
   start with a pair of daggers equipped. All other classes except
   shamans start with a 2-handed weapon equipped and the required skill
   already known. Shamans start with a 1-handed weapon and a shield, as
   they benefit more from the shield than they would from a 2-handed
   weapon.
-  Glancing Blows: The mage, warlock, and priest classes no longer have
   an increased chance for their melee attacks to be glancing blows;
   and the damage penalty due to their glancing blows is the same as
   for other classes.
-  Health and Mana Regeneration: These regeneration rates have been
   increased by up to 200% for low level characters. As a player’s
   level increases, the regeneration rates gradually reduce, returning
   to normal rates at level 15.
-  Pet Resilience: All player pets now get 100% of their master’s
   resilience.
-  Spell Mana Costs: These costs have been reduced for almost all lower
   level spell ranks. In general, if a spell decreased in cost with a
   higher level rank in patch 3.2.0, that spell now has the decreased
   cost at all ranks. In addition, spells learned before level 20 with
   reduced cast times and/or durations have even further reduced mana
   costs, proportionate to their reduction in cast time or damage.
-  Taunt Diminishing Returns: We’ve revised the system for diminishing
   returns on Taunt so that creatures do not become immune to Taunt
   until after 5 Taunts have landed. The duration of the Taunt effect
   will be reduced by 35% instead of 50% for each taunt landed. In
   addition, most creatures in the world will not be affected by Taunt
   diminishing returns at all. Creatures will only have Taunt
   diminishing returns if they have been specifically flagged for that
   behavior based on the design of a given encounter.

Races: General

-  Orc and troll shamans now have their own unique totem art.
-  Racial Attribute Bonuses: These bonuses have been recalibrated to
   even out the amount of starting health on the various races. All
   races start with a standardized level of stamina, except for orcs,
   dwarves, and tauren who now start with 1 extra point of stamina. For
   each class, bonuses and penalties to all attributes have been
   adjusted so that each race has an equal attribute total.
-  Will of the Forsaken now shares a 45-second cooldown with similar
   effects, including the Medallion of the Horde, Titan-Forged runes,
   Insignia of the Horde, etc.

PvP

-  Arenas
   All abilities that have base cooldowns of 10 minutes or longer
   cannot be used in Arenas, down from 15 minutes.
-  Battlegrounds
   Battleground Experience: Battleground experience gained is now based
   on the level of the player gaining experience, rather than the
   highest possible player level in that Battleground.
   All level 71-80 Battleground daily quests will now award 25 Arena
   points in addition to their current rewards.
-  Wintergrasp
   You must now have the following ranks to build or pilot siege
   vehicles:
   Rank 2: Build/pilot Catapults.
   Rank 3: Build/pilot Demolishers.
   Rank 3: Build/pilot Siege Engines.

Dungeons & Raids

-  Naxxramas
   Players no longer need to kill the final bosses in all four wings of
   this dungeon in order to teleport to Sapphiron. Teleportation orbs
   have been added to allow players access back and forth from
   Sapphiron’s lair.
-  Oculus
   Azure Ring Guardians agro distance changed from 50 to 40 yards.
   Many bosses and creatures have had their total health reduced.
   Several bosses and creatures have had cooldowns on specific
   abilities increased, effect durations reduced, and damage on some of
   these abilities reduced.
   Ring-Lord Conjurers and Sorceresses now hang out in packs of 4
   instead of packs of 5.
   Vehicle scaling on the drakes based on the rider’s item level has
   been increased to make them more powerful.


Death Knights

-  Army of the Dead: The cooldown on this ability has been reduced from
   20 minutes to 10 minutes. Army Ghoul damage dropped by 50%. Cannot
   be used in Arenas.
-  Raise Ally: The cooldown on this ability has been reduced from 15
   minutes to 10 minutes. Cannot be used in Arenas.
-  Rune of the Stoneskin Gargoyle: There is now a 1-handed version of
   this rune in addition to the current 2-handed rune.
-  Rune Strike: Threat generated by this ability increased by
   approximately 17%.
-  Talents
-  Unholy
   Night of the Dead: Now reduces the damage your pet takes from
   area-of-effect damage by 45/90%, but no longer applies to
   area-of-effect damage caused by other players. In addition, this
   talent now reduces the cooldown of Army of the Dead by 2/4 minutes,
   down from 5/10 minutes.
-  Scourge Strike: Redesigned. The base ability now deals 50% weapon
   damage plus an additional amount as physical damage.  However, for
   each disease the death knight has on the target, the target will
   take additional shadow damage equal to 25% of the physical damage
   done. 
-  Unholy Blight: This talent now deals only 10% of Death Coil damage
   as a damage-over-time effect on the target.

Druids

-  Prowl: This ability no longer has multiple ranks and penalizes
   movement speed by 30%.
-  Rebirth: The cooldown on this spell has been lowered from 20 minutes
   down to 10 minutes. Cannot be used in Arenas.
-  Rejuvenation: The base duration on all ranks of this spell is now 15
   seconds.
-  Tranquility: The cooldown on this spell has been reduced to 8
   minutes, down from 10 minutes.
-  Talents
-  Balance
   Eclipse: This effect will not activate again within 15 seconds of
   either type of Eclipse effect firing, in addition to the existing
   30-second cooldown for each type of Eclipse. In addition, Eclipse
   now grants a 40% critical strike chance to Starfire and 40%
   increased damage to Wrath, up from 30%.
   Force of Nature: Health on the treants has been increased.
-  Feral Combat
   Predatory Strikes: The Predatory Swiftness buff from this talent now
   has an 8-second duration.
-  Restoration
   Gift of the Earthmother: Redesigned. This talent now increases spell
   haste by 2/4/6/8/10% and reduces the base global cooldown of
   Lifebloom by 2/4/6/8/10% instead of its previous effects.
-  Pets
   Avoidance (passive): Now reduces the damage your pets take from
   area-of-effect damage by 90%, but no longer applies to
   area-of-effect damage caused by other players.
   Mirror Image: Health on the mirror images has been increased.

Hunters

-  Call Stabled Pet: Cooldown reduced from 30 minutes to 5 minutes.
   Cannot be used in Arenas.
-  Deterrence: Now also increases the chance for ranged attacks to miss
   the hunter by 100% while under its effect.
-  Misdirection: Redesigned. Instead of having finite charges, it now
   begins a 4-second timer when the hunter using Misdirection performs
   a threat-generating attack, during which all threat generated by the
   hunter goes to the friendly target. In addition, multiple hunters
   can now misdirect threat to the same friendly target simultaneously.
-  Talents
-  Beast Mastery
   Intimidation: If the hunter’s pet is in melee range of its target,
   the stun from Intimidation will now be applied immediately instead
   of on the pet’s next swing or attack.
-  Pets
   Avoidance: This talent has been replaced by Culling the Herd. Hunter
   pets now innately take 90% less damage from area-of-effect abilities
   like all other class pets. This does not apply to area-of-effect
   damage caused by other players.
   Cower: Redesigned. This ability no longer affects threat, and
   instead reduces damage taken by the pet by 40% for 6 seconds with a
   45-second cooldown. While cowering, the pet’s movement speed is 50%
   of normal speed. Cower now only has a single rank and is available
   at pet level 20.
   Culling the Herd: This pet talent has replaced the Avoidance talent
   in the pet trees (Hunter pets now gain that benefit automatically
   without expenditure of talent points).  Culling the Herd increases
   pet and hunter damage by 1/2/3% for 10 seconds each time the pet
   deals a critical strike with Claw, Bite, or Smack.
   Demoralizing Screech: The attack power reduction from this ability
   has been increased by 40%, equaling the maximum possible attack
   power reduction from the abilities of other classes.
   Improved Cower: Redesigned. This ability now reduces the movement
   penalty of Cower by 50%/100%.
-  Pet Leveling: Hunter pets now need only 5% of the experience a
   player needs to level, down from 10%.
   Venom Web Spray: Range increased from 20 yards to 30 yards.
   Web: Range increased from 20 yards to 30 yards.
   Wolverine Bite: This talent is now enabled when the pet lands a
   critical strike rather than from the target dodging the pet’s
   attacks. In addition, this talent no longer has a prerequisite.

Mages

-  Talents
-  Arcane
   Arcane Empowerment: This talent now also grants 1/2/3% increased
   damage done by the mage’s party or raid for 10 seconds after the
   mage gets a critical strike with Arcane Explosion, Arcane Missiles,
   Arcane Barrage, or Arcane Blast.  This effect is exclusive with
   Ferocious Inspiration and Sanctified Retribution.
-  Fire
   Blast Wave: The mana cost of this talent has been significantly
   reduced.
   Burning Determination: The duration of interrupt immunity granted by
   this talent is now 20 seconds.
   Dragon’s Breath: The mana cost of this talent has been significantly
   reduced.
   Firestarter: When this talent is triggered, it makes the next
   Flamestrike cost no mana in addition to being instant.
   Improved Scorch: The debuff from this talent no longer stacks, and
   instead can apply the full effect from a single cast of Scorch.
-  Frost
   Deep Freeze: This spell now deals a large amount of damage to
   targets permanently immune to stuns. In addition, when this ability
   deals damage it will no longer consume two charges of Fingers of
   Frost for those mages with the Shatter talent.
   Fingers of Frost: This talent now triggers immediately on casting a
   spell rather than being delayed until the spell strikes the target.
-  Pets
   Avoidance (passive): Now reduces the damage your pets take from
   area-of-effect damage by 90%, but no longer applies to
   area-of-effect damage caused by other players.
   Water Elemental: Waterbolt mana cost reduced by 80%.

Paladins

-  Divine Intervention: This ability now also removes Exhaustion or
   Sated from a target if the recipient is out of combat when the
   effect ends. In addition, the cooldown on this ability has
   been reduced from 20 minutes to 10 minutes. Cannot be used in
   Arenas.
-  Flash of Light: This spell no longer causes a heal-over-time effect
   unless the player has the Infusion of Light talent.
-  Lay on Hands: This ability will place Forbearance on the paladin if
   used on his or herself. It will not place Forbearance on others.
-  Talents
-  Holy
   Aura Mastery: This effect of this talent has been reduced in
   duration to 6 seconds.
   Infusion of Light: This talent now causes the paladin’s Flash of
   Light spells to heal the target for 50/100% of the Flash of Light
   healing amount over 12 seconds.
-  Protection
   Divine Guardian: This talent no longer increases the amount of
   damage transferred to the paladin from Divine Sacrifice. Instead it
   causes all raid and party members to take 10/20% reduced damage
   while Divine Sacrifice is active. In addition, the duration has been
   changed to 6 seconds, however the effect does not terminate when
   Divine Sacrifice is removed before its full duration.
   Divine Sacrifice: Redesigned. The effect of Divine Sacrifice is now
   party-only and the maximum damage which can be transferred is now
   limited to 40% of the paladin’s health multiplied by the number of
   party members. In addition, the bug which allowed Divine Sacrifice
   to sometimes persist despite reaching its maximum damage has been
   fixed. Divine Sacrifice will now cancel as soon as its maximum
   damage value is exceeded in all cases. Finally, damage which reduces
   the paladin’s health below 20% now cancels the effect early.
-  Retribution
   Repentance: This crowd control effect will no longer break early
   from the damage done by Righteous Vengeance.

Priests

-  Divine Hymn: The cooldown on this spell has been reduced to 8
   minutes, down from 10 minutes.
-  Power Word: Shield: This spell can now be cast on non-raid/party
   friendly targets.
-  Talents
-  Shadow
   Improved Devouring Plague: This spell now deals 10/20/30% of its
   total periodic effect instantly, up from 5/10/15%.
   Mind Flay: The range of this ability has been increased to 30 yards,
   up from 20.
   Shadowform: This talent also now causes Devouring Plague and
   Vampiric Touch to benefit from haste. Both the period length and the
   duration of these spells will be reduced by haste. In addition, the
   mana cost has been reduced from 32% to 13% of base mana.
   Vampiric Embrace: This ability is now provides a 30-minute buff that
   cannot be dispelled, instead of a target debuff and only generates
   healing for single-target shadow damage spells.
-  Pet
   Avoidance (passive): Now reduces the damage your pet takes from
   area-of-effect damage by 90%, but no longer applies to
   area-of-effect damage caused by other players.

Rogues

-  Deadly Poison: In addition to its existing effects, when a rogue
   applies Deadly Poison to a target which has already reached the
   maximum number of applications, this will also trigger the poison
   which the rogue is using on his or her other weapon.
-  Dual Wield: Rogues now know this ability upon logging into the game
   at level 1.
-  Stealth: This ability no longer has multiple ranks. While active,
   the single rank of this ability (available at level 1) allows rogues
   to move at 70% movement speed.
-  Talents
-  Assassination
   Improved Poisons: Bonus chance to trigger Deadly Poison from this
   talent increased.
   Murder: This talent now provides a flat damage increase of 2/4%
   against all targets, instead of only targets which do not appear in
   Icecrown.
-  Subtlety
   Preparation: The cooldown on this ability has been reduced to 8
   minutes, down from 10 minutes.
   Filthy Tricks: The cooldown reduction this talent provides for
   Preparation has been reduced to 1.5/3 minutes, down from 2.5/5
   minutes.

Shamans

-  Earth Elemental Totem: The cooldown for this totem has been reduced
   from 20 minutes to 10 minutes. Cannot be used in Arenas.
-  Fire Elemental Totem: The cooldown for this totem has been reduced
   from 20 minutes to 10 minutes. Cannot be used in Arenas.
-  Fire Nova Totem: This totem has been replaced with a new spell, Fire
   Nova, which is available at the same ranks as the old Fire Nova
   Totem. Existing characters will automatically learn this new spell
   in place of the totem. With a Fire Totem active, shamans will be
   able to use Fire Nova (fire magic) to emit the same area-of-effect
   damage as the old Fire Nova Totem from the active Fire Totem, not
   consuming the totem in the process. Fire Nova will activate a
   1.5-second global cooldown when used and has a 10-second spell
   cooldown. The caster must be within 30 yards of the totem to use
   this ability, but does not need to be within line of sight of the
   totem.
-  Reincarnation: The cooldown on this spell has been lowered from 60
   minutes down to 30 minutes.
-  Talents
-  Elemental Combat
   Elemental Mastery: This talent now increases spell haste by 15%
   instead of critical strike chance while active.
   Improved Fire Nova Totem: Renamed Improved Fire Nova. This talent
   now provides an additional 10/20% damage to the spell and reduces
   the cooldown by 2/4 seconds.
-  Enhancement
   Earth’s Grasp: This talent now also reduces the cooldown of the
   Stoneclaw and Earthbind totems by 15/30%.
-  Restoration
   Improved Reincarnation: This talent now reduces the cooldown of
   Reincarnation by 7/15 minutes, down from 10/20 minutes.
   Reincarnation cannot be used in Arenas.

Warlocks

-  Create Soulstone: The cooldown on this spell and duration of its
   buff have been lowered from 30 minutes down to 15 minutes. Cannot be
   used in Arenas.
-  Talents
-  Affliction
   Improved Drain Soul: This talent now reduces threat by 10%/20%, up
   from 5%/10%.
   Improved Felhunter: This talent now also reduces the cooldown on the
   felhunter’s Shadow Bite ability by 2/4 seconds.
   Shadow Mastery: This talent now also increases the damage done by
   the felhunter’s Shadow Bite ability by 3/6/9/12/15%.
-  Demonology
   Decimation: Redesigned. When Shadowbolt, Incinerate or Soul Fire hit
   a target that is at or below 35% health, the cast time of Soul Fire
   is reduced by 20/40% for 8 seconds. Soul Fires cast under the effect
   of Decimation cost no shards.
   Demonic Pact: This talent now also increases the warlock's spell
   damage by 1/2/3/4/5%.
-  Molten Core: Redesigned. This talent now increases the duration of
   Immolate by 3/6/9 seconds and provides a 4/8/12% chance to gain the
   Molten Core effect when Corruption deals damage. The Molten Core
   effect empowers the next 3 Incinerate or Soul Fire spells cast
   within 15 seconds (Incinerate: increases damage done by 6/12/18% and
   reduces cast time by 10/20/30%; Soul Fire: increases damage done by
   6/12/18% and increases critical strike chance by 5/10/15%). Molten
   Core now has a new spell effect.
-  Destruction
   Conflagrate: Redesigned. This talent now consumes an Immolate or
   Shadowflame effect on the enemy target to instantly deal damage
   equal to 9 seconds of Immolate or 8 seconds of Shadowflame, and
   causes additional damage over 3 seconds equal to 3 seconds of
   Immolate or 2 seconds of Shadowflame. In addition, the periodic
   damage of Conflagrate is capable of critically striking the
   afflicted target.
   Destructive Reach: This talent now reduces threat by 10%/20%, up
   from 5%/10%.
   Ruin: This talent now also increases the critical strike damage
   bonus of the imp’s Firebolt spell by 100%.
-  Pets
   Avoidance (passive): Now reduces the damage your pets take from
   area-of-effect damage by 90%, but no longer applies to
   area-of-effect damage caused by other players.
   Doomguard/Infernal: These pets now innately have Avoidance like all
   other warlock pets.
   Inferno: The cooldown on this summoning spell has been reduced from
   20 minutes to 10 minutes. Cannot be used in Arenas.
   Shadow Bite: This pet ability now does 15% increased damage for each
   of the warlock’s damage-over-time effects on the target.
   Summon Imp: This ability is now available from the trainer for level
   1 warlocks and no longer requires a quest to learn.

Warriors

-  Victory Rush: This ability is now trainable at level 6.
-  Talents
-  Protection
   Damage Shield: This ability will no longer trigger any chance-on-hit
   effects from the warrior or the opponent it damages.

User Interface

-  Many of the default Interface Options settings have been changed for
   greater ease of use by new players. Existing players who create new
   characters may want to review the Interface Options in the event
   that the default settings feel different.
-  Quest Tracking Feature
-  Players can now track quest objectives on the map (‘M’ key).
-  Quest Log
   A Show Map button has been added to the Quest Log. Selecting a quest
   and pressing this button will open the map for the zone in which the
   quest objective is located displaying the associated area of
   interest. Any other active quests in a player’s Quest Log for that
   zone will also be displayed.
-  Map
   The map interface has been separated into four separate panes: a map
   pane (left), a pane listing active quest names for the zone being
   viewed (right), a pane listing the full quest text for any
   highlighted quest (bottom left), and a pane listing the quest
   rewards for any highlighted quest (bottom right).
   All active quests listed in the right pane for the zone being viewed
   on the map will be assigned a number. These numbers will be
   displayed on the map according to the areas of interest for each
   quest.
   Highlighting a quest name in the right pane will highlight the
   corresponding area of interest on the map in the left pane, show its
   quest text in the lower left pane, and list the quest rewards in the
   lower right pane.
   Given that some quest objectives can be achieved in multiple
   locations within a given zone, highlighting such a quest will
   highlight an area of interest closest in proximity to the
   character’s current location.
   This feature can be disabled by un-checking the Show Quest
   Objectives box in the bottom right corner of the new map interface,
   restoring the map to its standard full-screen display.
   Clicking on the arrow in the top right corner of the new map
   interface will hide all but the map pane, bringing the map out of
   full-screen mode and allowing players to leave it open while
   navigating a zone or engaging in combat.
-  Objectives Tracking
   This frame has been improved to offer new functionality and can be
   used with the new shrunken map option.
   The Objectives frame is now docked below the mini-map next to the
   right 2 action bars and will track up to 10 quests for a zone.
   Numbers have been added next to each quest name and objective
   corresponding with those areas of interest displayed on the map. 
   If a quest objective has been completed, the number will be replaced
   with a yellow question mark symbol.
   The arrow button in the top right corner of the Objectives frame can
   be used to toggle between minimizing and maximizing the quest
   objective display.
-  Quest Difficulty Tracking
   This feature is off by default and can be enabled in the Objectives
   window from the Interface Options menu. Turning this feature on will
   color-code all quest names displayed in the map interface according
   to difficulty (grey, green, yellow, orange, and red).
-  Dungeon Finder
   This feature has replaced the Looking For Group tool and provides
   all-new dungeon party creation functionality.
   Players can join as individuals, as a full group, or a partial group
   to look for additional party members.
   Groups using this tool will be able to teleport directly to the
   selected instance. Upon leaving the instance, players will be
   returned to their original location. If any party member needs to
   temporarily leave the instance for reagents or repairs, they will
   have the option to teleport back to the instance.
   Players can choose the Random Dungeon option. 
   The Heroic Wrath of the Lich King Daily Random Dungeon option will
   award two Emblems of Frost no more than once a day.
   The normal Wrath of the Lich King Daily Random Dungeon option will
   award two Emblems of Triumph no more than once a day.
   Continuing to complete Wrath of the Lich King Heroic instances using
   the Daily Random Dungeon option will award players two additional
   Emblems of Triumph each time. 
   Daily Heroic and normal dungeon quests have been removed. These
   quests have been replaced with weekly raid quests (see the “Quests”
   section for details).
   Level-appropriate rewards will be offered to players who choose the
   Random Dungeon option for pre-Wrath of the Lich King dungeons.
   Players can be placed in a group for a random dungeon no more than
   once every 15 minutes.
   Random Dungeon rewards will be placed in each player’s inventory
   automatically upon completion of the dungeon (final boss killed).
   A pop-up notification will display any rewards earned through the
   Dungeon Finder.
   Instead of choosing a random dungeon, players can also choose
   specific dungeons appropriate for their level range. Multiple
   instances can be selected at one time. The feature no longer limits
   the choice to look for only 3 dungeon groups at one time.
   Pick-Up Groups
   Cross-realm instances are now available and use an improved
   matchmaking system to assist players in looking for additional party
   members. As with Battlegrounds, the realms in each Battlegroup are
   connected.
   As part of the matchmaking system, some of the more difficult
   dungeons will have a minimum gear requirement. Players also need to
   meet the requirements for dungeons that require attunement, such as
   keys or quests. If a player does not meet the requirements for a
   particular dungeon, a lock icon will be displayed next to that
   dungeon. Hovering over this icon will display the requirements which
   have not been met.
   Only conjured items and loot dropped in a dungeon for which other
   party members are eligible can be traded between players from
   different realms.
   A Vote Kick feature will be available in the event a member of a
   party is not performing to the expectations of the other members.
   Players who leave the group prematurely are subject to a Deserter
   debuff preventing them from using the Dungeon Finder for 15 minutes.
   If an existing group loses a member, the leader will be asked if he
   or she wants to continue the dungeon. Choosing to continue will
   automatically place the group back into the Dungeon Finder queue.
   A Player will not be placed in a group with people on his or her
   Ignore list.
   Players who take part in groups who have one or more members who
   have been matched with them randomly from within the Dungeon Finder
   will receive extra rewards, up to and including the coveted Perky
   Pug non-combat pet. The more random players with whom one groups,
   the faster the pet can be obtained.
   The Need Before Greed loot system will be the unalterable default
   looting system for pick-up groups in the Dungeon Finder and has been
   updated.
   Need Before Greed will now recognize gear appropriate for a class in
   three ways: the class must be able to equip the item, pure melee
   will be unable to roll on spell power items, and classes are limited
   to their dominant armor type (ex. paladins for plate). All items
   will still be available via Greed rolls as well as the new
   Disenchant option should no member be able to use the item.
   Players will be able to roll on items with a required minimum level
   higher than a player’s current level.
-  Looking For Raid
   There is a new Looking For Raid option available to players that can
   be accessed via the Raid Information screen in the interface or by
   typing “/LFR.”
   Players will be able to browse the system manually for any other
   players looking for a raid dungeon group.
   While browsing LFR players may sort the list ascending or descending
   by left-clicking the following headers: Name, Level, Class, Tank
   Role, Healer Role, and Damage Role. The crown is the Leader Role
   (representing a raid group with 2 or more people). Players can
   left-click on this header to sort the list with groups at the top or
   at the bottom.
   Hovering over players listed in LFR will display their name, class,
   level, roles and comments. Hovering over a raid/group will display
   the leader’s name, the raid information (number of people in the
   raid), comments, if there are any bosses dead (and which ones), and
   if there are any friends from your Friends list or ignored players
   from your Ignore list in the raid group.
-  The Looking For Group chat channel has returned and can be accessed
   in all major cities (similar to the Trade chat channel) without the
   use of the Dungeon Finder interface.
-  Players may only be queued or listed in one of the following systems
   at a time: Dungeons, LFR, Battlegrounds, or Arenas.
-  Ignore List: The amount of characters a person can ignore has been
   increased to 50. In addition, players on other realms can be placed
   on the Ignore list.
-  Buffs and Debuffs: This is a new section added to Interface Options.
   New option - Castable Debuffs: Enabling this will cause only debuffs
   you have cast on an enemy target to appear.
   New option - Consolidate Buffs: Enabling this adds a buff
   consolidation box near the mini-map. Very short term buffs (e.g.
   Replenishment) and very long term buffs (e.g. Prayer of Fortitude)
   are filtered into the buff box. The icons are stacked here, but they
   can still be seen by moving the mouse cursor over the buff box. Long
   term buffs will move out of the box when they are about to expire.
   Buffs such as important procs (e.g. Art of War, Maelstrom Weapon),
   cooldowns (e.g. Bloodlust / Heroism, Combustion) or limited in range
   (e.g. totems and paladin auras) are always displayed.
-  Tutorial System: The tutorial pop-ups are now larger, contain
   images, and better try to direct players to the relevant locations
   or user interface elements on the screen. In addition, several new
   tips have been added, while some existing tips will now appear at
   more appropriate times for new players.
-  Dungeon & Raid Difficult Display: A group’s dungeon or raid
   difficulty setting will now be displayed via an icon off of the
   mini-map.
-  Group Disenchanting Option: In addition to rolling Need or Greed
   on items, players now have the option to elect for an item to be
   disenchanted if an enchanter of the appropriate skill level is in
   the group. Disenchant works exactly like Greed except if a player
   wins the Greed roll, they will receive the disenchanted materials
   instead. Players who choose Need will always win the item and will
   always beat those that choose Greed or Disenchant.
-  Lag Reports: Players can now report high latency or lag by accessing
   the Help Request menu.
-  Unit Nameplates
   The range at which players can see unit nameplates has been
   increased by 40 yards.
   Unit nameplates are now subject to line-of-sight limitations in
   certain situations (this does not pertain to objects like Arena
   pillars or bridges).
   Players can now adjust select unit nameplate display settings listed
   below under Interface Options via the Names tab.
   Friendly/enemy pet nameplates can be toggled.
   Enemy totem nameplates can be toggled (friendly totem nameplates are
   never displayed).
   Players can choose whether or not unit nameplates overlap.
   Unit nameplates for critters are never displayed.
-  Non spell-based tracking now persists through logout.
-  Any party member may mark targets (this does not apply to raid
   groups).
-  Players will be warned when their talents are reset due to a new
   patch.
-  “/Settitle” command has been added.
-  Instant quest text is on by default.
-  Tentative status added for calendar responses.
-  Players below level 10 may not join raids.
-  Ignore list expanded to 50 to match the friends list.
-  Unit frames added for special encounters.
-  Interface element added next to the mini-map to show what dungeon
   you are in (ex: 10- and 25-player Heroic dungeons marked with a
   skull).
-  Experience earned for a quest will display in the Quest Rewards
   section.
-  Confirmation box added when buying stable slots.
-  Macro Changes
   Symbol “@” added as a synonym for “target=”. For example,
   “/cast [@focus] Flash Heal”.
   New macro conditionals: “vehicleui” (if the player has a vehicle UI)
   and “unithasvehicleui” (if the target of the macro has a
   vehicle UI).
-  Addon Author Changes
   “registerForClicks” added to xml buttons.
   “MouseIsOver” has been converted to a “C” function for increased
   efficiency (e.g. /dump PlayerFrame:IsMouseOver() ).
   When an addon file is loaded, the addon name and an addon table are
   passed to the file through ‘…’. The same addon table is passed to
   every file loaded by a particular TOC file (example at the top of a
   Lua file: “local addonName, addonTable = …;”.
   “motionScriptsWhileDisabled” attribute added to buttons. This allows
   “OnEnter” and “OnLeave” to fire while the button is disabled.
   “GetFileHeight()” and “GetFileWidth()” added to Texture objects. 0
   is returned if no texture file is associated with the texture.
   You can now query for a list of completed quests with\
   “QueryQuestsCompleted()” then wait for the “QUEST_QUERY_COMPLETE”
   event, and call “GetQuestsCompleted(<luatable>)”.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the 
   UI & Macros Forum: 
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&amp;forumId=11114

Graphics

-  A new feature has been added to the D3D graphics engine to improve
   texture management (particularly for Windows XP users). If you are
   experiencing random crashes related to file read errors or out of
   memory, this new backend may help.  To enable the new backend, add
   the following line to your Config.WTF file: SET gxApi "d3d9ex". For
   more information please visit our Technical Support forum:
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?forumId=11110&sid=1

Professions

-  Enchanting
   Enchant Weapon - Black Magic: This enchantment now sometimes
   increases haste rating for the caster rather than inflicting the
   caster’s target with a damage-over-time effect. It is also now
   triggered by landing any harmful spell rather than inflicting damage
   with a spell.
   Enchant Weapon - Unholy: This enchantment now inflicts Shadow damage
   in addition to its original effect.
-  First Aid
   The training costs for most bandages have been reduced.
-  Fishing
   The all-new Kalu’ak Fishing Derby, a test of fishing skill with a
   healthy dash of luck, has come to Northrend! Every Wednesday
   beginning at 8 PM players can try to catch the elusive Blacktip
   Shark. Elder Clearwater sits in Dalaran for one hour awaiting the
   return of the quickest, most experienced fisher to bring him this
   shark. This champion fisher will be rewarded in-kind for returning
   with the first catch. Those who aren’t able to return with the first
   catch will still receive just reward for getting the Blacktip Shark
   to Elder Clearwater before he takes his leave. It is said that these
   sharks’ favorite meal are the bite-sized Pygmy Suckerfish. Perhaps a
   hook in their waters will do the trick.
-  Mining
   Enchanted Thorium: This ability now uses the Mining skill and is
   learned from trainers at a skill level of 250.

Quests
   
-  Weekly raid quests are now available from Archmage Lan'dalock in
   Dalaran. Every Tuesday at 3 AM the Council of Six will choose a
   different strategic target that must die from either: The Obsidian
   Sanctum, Naxxramas, The Eye of Eternity, Ulduar, Trial of the
   Crusader, or Icecrown Citadel.
-  For the various Icecrown Bomber quests at Aldur'thar: The Desolation
   Gate, players can now choose to eject from their bomber seats
   mid-run. If you do so, a rescue vehicle will transport your
   character back to the safety of your infra-green platform.
-  Azure Drakes and Dragons will now attack back when attacked by
   characters not riding Wyrmrest Defenders.
-  Brittle Revenants, quest creatures fought for the Sons of Hodir
   daily quest “Hot and Cold,” no longer cast Shield Slam.

Achievements

-  Commendation Badges which award reputation with various Wrath of
   the Lich King factions can be purchased with Emblems of Triumph in
   Dalaran.
-  The Achievements to get exalted with the Warsong Gulch, Arathi
   Basin, and Alterac Valley factions have been removed from their
   respective “Master of” Meta-Achievements. Special titles will be
   offered to those who reach exalted with these factions.
   “The Party’s Over” has been removed from Achievements and is no
   longer a part of the “Glory of the Hero” Meta-Achievement.
   “Master Angler of Stranglethorn” has been changed to “Master Angler
   of Azeroth” and can be achieved by winning either the Kalu'ak
   Fishing Derby or the Stranglethorn Fishing Extravaganza.

Reputation

-  Commendation Badges which award reputation with various Wrath of the
   Lich King factions can be purchased with Emblems of Triumph in
   Dalaran. Each badge costs 1 Emblem of Triumph.
-  Gaining reputation with the Ashen Verdict in Icecrown Citadel will
   grant players access to upgradeable rings from Ormus the Penitent.
   Players can switch between the type of ring (melee/caster/tank/
   healer) at any point in the upgrade path for 200g.
-  The following reputations have been sped up by roughly 30%:
   Argent Crusade
   Alliance Vanguard
   Horde Expedition
   Kirin Tor
   Knights of the Ebon Blade
   Sons of Hodir
   Wyrmrest Accord
-  Sons of Hodir quests now give more reputation overall.
-  Top-level helm and shoulder faction-related enchants are now
   available as Bind-on-Account items that do not require any faction
   to use once purchased (they still require the appropriate faction
   level to purchase).

Items

-  Arena Set Bonuses: The two-piece set bonus for all Wrath of the Lich
   King Arena sets now provides 100 resilience and 29 spell power or 50
   attack power. The current four-piece bonus will remain, however it
   also now provides 88 spell power or 150 attack power.
-  Death Knight Tier-9 4-Piece Bonus (Damage-Dealing): This set bonus
   no longer grants Frost Fever a chance to be a critical strike. It
   still grants that possibility to Blood Plague.
-  Glyphs
-  Death Knights
   Glyph of Icy Touch: Instead of granting additional runic power, this
   glyph now causes Frost Fever to deal 20% additional damage.
-  Druids
   Glyph of Rapid Rejuvenation: This glyph allows for the druid’s haste
   to reduce the time between the periodic healing effects of
   Rejuvenation.
-  Mages
   Glyph of Improved Scorch: Renamed Glyph of Scorch. This glyph now
   increases the damage of Scorch by 20%.
   Glyph of Eternal Water: This glyph allows for a summoned Water
   Elemental to last indefinitely, but it can no longer cast Freeze.
-  Priests
   Glyph of Mind Flay: This glyph now increases the damage done by Mind
   Flay by 10% when the target is afflicted with Shadow Word: Pain.
   Glyph of Shadow Word: Pain: The periodic damage ticks of Shadow
   Word: Pain now restore 1% of the priest’s base mana with this glyph.
   Glyph of Shadow: While in Shadowform, this glyph causes non-periodic
   spell critical strikes to increase spell power by 30%, up from 10%,
   of the priest’s total spirit for 10 seconds.
-  Shamans
   Glyph of Fire Nova Totem: Renamed Glyph of Fire Nova. This glyph now
   reduces the cooldown of Fire Nova by 3 seconds.
-  Warlocks
   Glyph of Life Tap: The effect of this glyph now has a chance of
   activating when Dark Pact is used.
   Glyph of Quick Decay: This glyph allows for the warlock’s haste to
   reduce the time between periodic damage effects of Corruption.
-  Warriors
   Glyph of Victory Rush: This glyph now increases the critical strike
   chance of Victory Rush by 30%, regardless of the percentage of the
   target’s remaining health.
-  Haris Pilton now sells a new 24-slot bag! She has stubbornly decided
   to remain in Shattrath City, so those interested should seek her out
   there.
-  Hatchlings: Leaping, Darting, Razormaw, and Ravasaur Hatchlings no
   longer drop from their associated rare creatures. Instead, there are
   now rare nests that spawn which contain these hatchlings. For
   example, the Leaping Hatchling can now be found in Takk’s Nest
   rather than as a drop from Takk the Leaper.
-  Icecrown Citadel Items: Normal and Heroic versions of Icecrown
   Citadel rings and trinkets are considered Unique-Equipped and cannot
   be used at the same time.
-  Sceptor of Celebras: Since this item is no longer needed as a key,
   Celebras will no longer give one out to a player who loses it. The
   item can now be sold or disenchanted as normal.
-  Shaman Tier-9 4-Piece Set Bonus (Elemental): This set bonus now does
   an additional 10% of Lava Burst’s initial damage over time instead
   of increasing the size of the Lava Burst.

Bug Fixes

-  Items
   Ancient Pickled Egg: This item can no longer be triggered by Life
   Tap.
   Brutal Hauberk: The tooltip on this item no longer references
   granting energy (as energy-based classes cannot equip it).
   Costumes: Various costumes from holidays, items, and quests that
   previously were cancelled by getting on a mount will now cause an
   error message when the player attempts to mount instead of
   cancelling the costume.
   Carapace of the Old God: Now tradable using the Bind-on-Pickup trade
   system.
   Crystalforged Trinket: Can now be refunded at its vendor.
   Dragonslayer Set: No longer displays a duration on the Nature’s Ally
   buff.
   Drums of the Forgotten Kings: The buff from this item will no longer
   be cancelled when the player who used the item swaps talent
   specializations.
   Drums of the Wild: The buff from this item will no longer be
   cancelled when the player who used the item swaps talent
   specializations.
   Eating and Drinking: Eating and drinking are now cancelled and
   prevented while in a vehicle as a passenger. 
   Figurine: Emerald Owl: Now grants mana properly to druids in Bear
   Form, Cat Form, and Dire Bear Form.
   Figurine: Talasite Owl: Now grants mana properly to druids in Bear
   Form, Cat Form, and Dire Bear Form.
   Fire Hardened Hauberk: The tooltip on this item no longer references
   granting energy (as energy-based classes cannot equip it).
   Giantstalker Set: No longer displays a duration on the Nature’s Ally
   buff.
   Glyph of Immolation Trap: Now properly increases damage by 100%.
   Gul’dan’s Regalia Set: Tooltip corrected to indicate increased
   damage for all pet attacks, not just abilities.
   Husk of the Old God: Now tradable using the Bind-on-Pickup trade
   system.
   Idol of Flaring Growth: Now has a detailed combat log tooltip.
   Idol of Lunar Fury: Now has a detailed Combat log tooltip.
   Idol of The Corruptor: Now has a detailed Combat log tooltip.
   Insignia of the Alliance: Item level changed to 60.
   Insignia of the Horde: Item level changed to 60.
   Level 58 PvP Items: A variety of PvP items with a minimum level of
   58 were not being translated properly when a player used the Paid
   Faction Change service. That has been corrected. Paladin- and
   shaman-specific items still will not be translated, as there is no
   opposite version to translate them into.
   Liadrin’s Plate Set: No longer incorrectly reduces the cooldown on
   Divine Shield.
   Lightning Capacitor: Combat log tooltip for Electrical Charge
   updated to include more detailed information.
   Nightsong Regalia Set: The bonus to Rejuvenation from this set will
   now work properly with the Idol of Rejuvenation equipped. In
   addition, the instant heal provided now has a correct combat log
   tooltip.
   Noggenfogger Elixir: Players shrunk while under the effects of this
   item will now be able to mount.
   Quel’dorei Channeling Rod: Spelling error corrected.
   Quel’dorei Sash: Spelling error corrected.
   Quel’dorei Guard: Spelling error corrected.
   Qiraji Bindings of Command: Now tradable using the Bind-on-Pickup
   trade system.
   Qiraji Bindings of Dominance: Now tradable using the Bind-on-Pickup
   trade system.
   Reclaimed Shadowstrike: No longer has a cooldown to create Reclaimed
   Thunderstrike.
   Reinforced Shadowstrike: No longer has a cooldown to create
   Reinforced Thunderstrike.
   Reins of the Swift Frostsaber: The mount learned from this item no
   longer triggers a global cooldown.
   Runescroll of Fortitude: The buff from this item will no longer be
   cancelled when the player who used the item swaps talent
   specializations.
   Seaspray Albatross: Now grants mana properly to druids in Bear Form,
   Cat Form, and Dire Bear Form.
   Sigil of Virulence: Now has a detailed combat log tooltip.
   Solace of the Defeated: Can no longer be triggered by spells with a
   base cost of 0.
   Solace of the Fallen: Can no longer be triggered by spells with a
   base cost of 0.
   Spirit of Eskhandar Set: This set no longer requires Eskhandar’s
   Collar to complete (that item can no longer be acquired).
   Swift Horde Wolf: The mount learned from this item no longer
   triggers a global cooldown.
   The Egg of Mortal Essence: This item can no longer be triggered by
   Life Tap.
   Tier 2 Helmets: Looting these items from Nefarion in Blackwing Lair
   will no longer trigger the Onyxia’s Lair (level 60) Feat of Strength
   achievement.
   Totem of Quaking Earth: This totem will no longer sometimes grant
   unintended bonus healing.
   Turalyon’s Plate Set: No longer incorrectly reduces the cooldown on
   Divine Shield.
   Veklor’s Diadem: Now tradable using the Bind-on-Pickup trade system.
   Warmth of Forgiveness: Now grants mana properly to druids in Bear
   Form, Cat Form, and Dire Bear Form.
   Windrunner Set: The set bonus which grants Greatness to the hunter’s
   pet will no longer spuriously show the hunter also gaining that
   buff.
   Worldbreaker Garb Set: The Electrified effect caused by this set now
   has detailed combat log tooltips.
-  Racial Abilities
   Arcane Torrent: Updated tooltip to include the functionality that
   this ability also interrupts spellcasting on NPCs. In addition, this
   ability will now be properly noted and displayed as an interrupt in
   the cast bar UI.
   Every Man for Himself: Disconnecting while rooted will no longer
   sometimes trigger this ability.
-  Classes
-  Death Knights
   Bloody Strikes: Now properly increases the damage displayed in the
   tooltips of Blood Strike and Heart Strike.
   Bone Shield: Tooltip corrected to indicate the player has the
   correct number of bones.
   Chains of Ice: This ability will no longer appear to land on targets
   which are immune.
   Desecration: The debuff from this ability will no longer sometimes
   appear as if it were cast by someone else. In addition, the visual
   and snare from this ability will now both dissipate at the same
   time. Further, this talent will now respect snare immunities, and no
   longer sometimes snare immune targets.
   Frost Presence: The animation for activating this presence will no
   longer also have the animation for Blood Presence played at the same
   time.
   Glyph of Bone Shield: Now updates the number of charges in the Bone
   Shield tooltip.
   Glyph of Dark Death: Now updates the tooltip on Death Coil. In
   addition, its own tooltip has been clarified to indicate it also
   applies to healing from Death Coil.
   Glyph of Death’s Embrace: Now updates the tooltip on Death Coil to
   indicate runic power is refunded.
   Glyph of Heart Strike: Now updates the tooltip on Heart Strike to
   indicate Heart Strike applies a movement snare.
   Glyph of Icebound Fortitude: Now updates the tooltip on Icebound
   Fortitude to show increased damage reduction.
   Glyph of Plague Strike: Now updates the damage shown in Plague
   Strike’s tooltip.
   Glyph of Unbreakable Armor: Now updates the tooltip on Unbreakable
   Armor. Tooltip on glyph modified to make its effect more clear as
   well.
   Master of Ghouls: Tooltip typo corrected.
   Night of the Dead: Tooltip typo corrected.
   Obliterate: This ability will no longer sometimes fail to do
   additional damage based on diseases on the target.
   Raise Ally: While this spell is active on a target, they will not be
   sent to the graveyard, prematurely ending the spell.
   Strangulate: Updated tooltip to include the functionality that this
   ability also interrupts spellcasting on NPCs.
   Raise Dead: It is no longer possible under some circumstances to use
   a Risen Ghoul to cause neutral guards to attack opposite faction
   players.
   Taste of Blood: Corrected inaccurate information in combat log
   tooltip.
   Unholy Presence: The animation for activating this presence will no
   longer also have the animation for Blood Presence played at the same
   time.
-  Druids
   Glyph of Hurricane: Now modifies the spell tooltip on Hurricane to
   indicate the spell also applies a movement slowing effect.
   Hurricane: When cast from Bear Form, Cat Form, or Dire Bear Form,
   this spell will now channel properly instead of stopping the channel
   as soon as the shapeshift is cancelled.
   Infected Wounds: This ability is no longer considered to be in the
   magical defense category; therefore spell hit no longer applies to
   its activation. Tooltip error corrected.
   Nature's Grace: The tooltip now correctly indicates that it will not
   be activated from periodic spell critical strikes.
   Swipe (Bear): Tooltip corrected to display 8 yard range.
   Rejuvenation: Druids will no longer get a more powerful spell error
   message when attempting to overwrite a Rejuvenation they cast.
-  Hunters
   Concussive Barrage: This ability is no longer subject to spell
   reflects.
   Explosive Trap: The damage from this trap will now scale properly
   with the hunter’s attack power.
   Glyph of Immolation Trap: Now properly increases damage by 100%. In
   addition, this glyph will now modify the tooltip of Immolation Trap
   correctly.
   Glyph of Mending: This glyph will now modify the amount healed in
   the tooltip on Mend Pet.
   Point of No Escape: It is no longer possible to gain benefit from
   this talent multiple times by having a target affected by multiple
   of the same hunter’s traps. In addition, Freezing Arrow will no
   longer incorrectly provide a critical strike bonus to players beyond
   the hunter with this talent.
   Roar of Sacrifice: Corrected tooltip error.
   Silencing Shot: Updated tooltip to include the functionality that
   this ability also interrupts spellcasting on NPCs.
   Volley: The tooltip for this ability will now update properly from
   haste.
-  Mages
   Arcane Concentration: The interaction of this talent with Arcane
   Missiles has been restructured. Instead of an Arcane Missiles cast
   triggering the talent, each missile has an independent (but reduced)
   chance to trigger this talent. In addition, the talent will no
   longer sometimes be triggered from misses by Arcane Missiles, Arcane
   Blast, and Blizzard.
   Blast Wave: Tooltip typo corrected.
   Blizzard: The tooltip on this ability will now update properly from
   all talents which increase its damage by a percentage. Also fixed a
   bug where some trinkets were not triggered by this spell.
   Cone of Cold: The tooltip on this ability will now update properly
   from all talents which increase its damage by a percentage.
   Dalaran Intellect: Mages will now be properly blocked from casting
   this spell when the target has a more powerful version of the buff.
   Deep Freeze: This spell will no longer consume two charges of
   Fingers of Frost when it misses its target.
   Flame Strike: Some ranks of this spell had an incorrect cast time of
   3 seconds. All ranks now share a 2-second cast time.
   Frost Nova: The tooltip on this ability will now update properly
   from all talents which increase its damage by a percentage.
   Frostbolt: The tooltip on this ability will now update properly from
   all talents which increase its damage by a percentage.
   Glyph of Mirror Image: Now updates the tooltip on Mirror Image to
   show 4 images are summoned.
   Ignite: Now correctly benefits from the dispel resistance granted by
   the Arcane Subtlety talent. In addition, this talent will now
   properly include in its damage calculation any damage of the initial
   fire critical strike that was absorbed.
   Ice Lance: The tooltip on this ability will now update properly from
   all talents which increase its damage by a percentage.
   Improved Scorch: This talent no longer causes a bug that removes all
   resilience from pets.
   Mirror Image: The mirror images summoned will no longer sometimes
   appear as shades before taking on the appearance of the casting
   mage.
   Prismatic Cloak: Rank three of this talent will now properly modify
   the tooltip on Invisibility to indicate the effect is instant.
   Slow Fall: This spell can now activate trinkets that can trigger
   from casting a helpful spell.
   Winter’s Chill: This talent no longer causes a bug that removes all
   resilience from pets.
-  Paladins
   Aura Mastery: The animation for this ability will no longer be extra
   bright when used with Concentration Aura active.
   Beacon of Light: The effect of this ability will no longer sometimes
   continue past the duration of its buff. In addition, the duration
   when used with the Glyph of Beacon of light will now correctly be
   1.5 minutes. Finally, the tooltip was corrected to indicate
   benefitting targets must be in the paladin’s party or raid.
   Blessing of Kings: It is no longer possible to have multiple buff
   icons from this spell.
   Blessing of Sacrifice: Damage transferred via this ability can now
   be prevented by damage absorption effects.
   Blessing of Sanctuary: It is no longer possible to have multiple
   buff icons from this spell. In addition, the tooltip has been
   corrected to include 10% increased strength.
   Devotion Aura: When in a party with another paladin using a
   different rank of this ability, it is no longer possible to see two
   different Devotion Aura icons displayed as buffs.
   Divine Sacrifice: This ability now properly counts all damage
   transferred against its limit, instead of not counting some damage.
   Greater Blessing of Kings: It is no longer possible to have multiple
   buff icons from this spell.
   Greater Blessing of Sanctuary: It is no longer possible to have
   multiple buff icons from this spell. In addition, the tooltip has
   been corrected to include 10% increased strength.
   Guardian’s Favor: Corrected a tooltip error in rank 1 of this
   ability.
   Hand of Freedom: It is no longer possible to use this ability while
   under the effects of the druid spell Cyclone. In addition,
   disconnecting while rooted will no longer sometimes trigger casting
   this on oneself.
   Hand of Reckoning: Tooltip clarified to indicate taunt immune
   targets will not take damage from this ability.
   Hand of Sacrifice: Damage transferred via this ability can now be
   prevented by damage absorption effects.
   Heart of the Crusader: The effect of this talent is now always
   removed when the target no longer has an active Judgement debuff.
   Judgements of the Just: The effect of this talent is now always
   removed when the target no longer has an active Judgement debuff.
   Judgement of Righteousness: The damage from this ability will no
   longer sometimes increase when the paladin’s agility increases (only
   occurred with low strength and high agility).
   Judgement of Wisdom: Corrected incorrect information in the combat
   log tooltip.
   Retribution Aura: It is no longer possible under some circumstances
   for the UI to display buffs from two different ranks of this
   ability.
   Seal of Corruption: Tooltip corrected to list the actual amount of
   damage done instead of a higher number.
-  Priests
   Glyph of Power Word: Shield: The heal caused by this glyph will now
   correctly use the casting priest’s critical strike chance instead of
   the target’s.
   Inspiration: The tooltip now correctly indicates that it also
   functions with Prayer of Mending.
   Levitate: This spell can now activate trinkets that can trigger from
   casting a helpful spell.
   Mass Dispel: Some trinkets which were not triggered properly by this
   spell will now work correctly when Mass Dispel is cast.
   Mind Flay: The rank 1 tooltip has been corrected to indicate the
   accurate damage and snare effect. In addition, this ability will now
   work correctly with [target=focus] and [target=mouseover] macros.
   Prayer of Mending: Inspiration and Divine Aegis can no longer be
   incorrectly triggered by this spell for priests who do not have
   those talents.
   Silence: Updated tooltip to include the functionality that this
   ability also interrupts spellcasting on NPCs.
   Spirit Tap: This talent can no longer be triggered by the death of
   the priest’s Jewelcrafter Stone Statues.
-  Rogues
   Ambush: The tooltip on this ability will now update properly from
   talents which increase its damage by a percentage.
   Backstab: The tooltip on this ability will now update properly from
   talents which increase its damage by a percentage.
   Deadly Poison: Another rogue using a higher rank of this poison will
   no longer prevent the lower rank Deadly Poison from being applied to
   the target.
   Eviscerate: The tooltip on this ability will now update properly
   from talents which increase its damage by a percentage.
   Glyph of Rupture: Now updates the duration on Rupture’s tooltip.
   Killing Spree: Entering a vehicle will now cause this ability to
   halt, and attempting to use it while on a vehicle will result in an
   error message.
   Mutilate: The tooltip on this ability will now update properly from
   talents which increase its damage by a percentage. In addition, the
   damage from this ability can now be blocked.
   Sinister Strike: The tooltip on this ability will now update
   properly from talents which increase its damage by a percentage.
   Slice and Dice: Improved Slice and Dice and Glyph of Slice and Dice
   now update the duration of this ability.
   Throwing Specialization: Deadly Throw will no longer cause multiple
   spell interruption combat log entries when used with this talent.
-  Shamans
   Glyph of Earthliving Weapon: Now updates the tooltip for Earthliving
   Weapon.
   Glyph of Lesser Healing Wave: Tooltip and functionality corrected to
   ensure this glyph will cause extra healing from Lesser Healing Wave
   regardless of which shaman cast Earth Shield on the target.
   Hex: Players are no longer able to use Battlemaster trinkets while
   under the effects of this spell.
   Mana Tide Totem: The tooltip on this spell will now be modified
   properly by the Glyph of Mana Tide Totem.
   Thunderstorm: It is no longer possible to use this ability while
   under the effects of the Druid spell Cyclone.
-  Warlocks
   Conflagrate: This spell will no longer benefit inconsistently from
   the talents Emberstorm and Improved Immolate, as well as the Glyph
   of Immolate and Tier 9 set bonus. Just as for Immolate, all stacking
   percentage increases will be applied additively instead of
   multiplicatively (+10% and +20% make +30% instead of +32%). In
   addition, Conflagrate used with Shadowflame will now scale properly
   from spell power.
   Curse of the Elements: Rank 4 has been increased to 11%, up from
   10%.
   Drain Soul: This spell now deals 4 times the normal damage for all
   ranks. Previously it was only ranks 6 and above.
   Glyph of Conflagrate: Now updates the tooltip of Conflagrate to
   remove reference to Conflagrate removing an Immolate or Shadowflame
   effect on the target.
   Glyph of Siphon Life: This glyph will now modify the tooltip on
   Siphon Life correctly.
   Glyph of Unending Breath: Now updates the tooltip on Unending Breath
   to indicate it increases swim speed.
   Hellfire: Dealing damage to another player with this ability will
   now put the Warlock in combat.
   Improved Shadow Bolt: This talent no longer causes a bug that
   removes all resilience from pets.
   Soul Link: Damage transferred via this ability can now be prevented
   by damage absorption effects.
   Suffering (Voidwalker): Ranks 5-8 had the incorrect taunt radius of
   5 yards and have all been adjusted to a 10-yard radius.
-  Warriors
   Blood Frenzy: This debuff is no longer considered a Bleed effect
   that can be removed separately from the actual Bleed effect which
   caused it.
   Bloodrage: Tooltip now adjusts to show effect of Anger Management on
   this ability.
   Glyph of Cleaving: Now updates the tooltip of Cleave to show that
   more targets are struck by the ability.
   Glyph of Hamstring: Now updates the tooltip of Hamstring to indicate
   it has a chance to immobilize.
   Glyph of Vigilance: Now updates the tooltip on Vigilance to show
   that more threat is transferred.
   Mocking Blow: Tooltip clarified to indicate taunt immune targets
   will not take damage from this ability.
   Rampage: Rampage now behaves correctly as an Enrage effect when
   interacting with the Enraged Regeneration ability.
   Recklessness: Heroic Throw and Shattering Throw will now benefit
   from this ability and consume charges of this ability. In addition,
   Recklessness now behaves correctly as an Enrage effect when
   interacting with the Enraged Regeneration ability.
   Sudden Death: Corrected inaccurate information in combat log
   tooltip.
   Sweeping Strikes: Corrected inaccurate information in combat log
   tooltip.
   Vigilance: The threat transfer granted by this ability will now
   reactivate when Tricks of the Trade or Misdirection cast by the
   Vigilance target expires.
   Warbringer: Tooltip typo corrected.
-  Game Systems
   Target Effects: When this UI feature is activated, Fear, Silence,
   Frostbolt, and Hamstring will all now display text over the target’s
   head indicating what type of effect has been applied.
-  Battlegrounds
-  Strand of the Ancients
   The “Let the Battle for the Strand of the Ancients” message should
   no longer appear twice in round 2. It also now appears correctly at
   the beginning of round 1.
   Storm the Beach should now be correctly granted to the Horde when
   they start round 1 on offense.
   The east Antipersonnel Cannon at the Amethyst gate should no longer
   be able to shell the graveyard flag.
   Fixed an order of operations issue where players would sometimes not
   be resurrected or clear their Inactive debuff at the end of the 1st
   round.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.2.2a	(2009-09-24)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We are updating World of Warcraft with a  minor bug fix patch. For updated 
information regarding the changes made in this patch, please visit the official 
General forum at: 
http://forums.wow-europe.com/board.html?forumId=10001&sid=1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.2.2	(2009-09-22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html

General

-  The Brood Mother Returns
   After years of lurking in her lair battling the many brave
   adventurers who travelled from afar to challenge her, Onyxia returns
   stronger than before to commemorate World of Warcraft’s five-year
   anniversary.
   Onyxia has been scaled to offer new challenges to level 80 players
   in 10- and 25-player modes.
   Adjusted for modern raiding, but with the fundamental experience of
   fighting the Brood Mother still in effect, including the horrors of
   her Deep Breaths!
   Onyxia will now drop level 80 item versions of some classic loot
   items from the level 60 encounter.
   Brood of Onyxia, a very rare 310%-speed mount modeled after Onyxia
   herself will be available for the luckiest of challengers.
-  Armor Penetration Rating: The amount of armor penetration gained per
   point of this rating has been reduced by 12%.

PvP

-  Battlegrounds
   Players level 11 and higher will now always see a daily Battleground
   quest, as the quest giver will only offer daily quests for a
   Battleground in which a player is eligible to participate according
   to level bracket (i.e. players levels 11-20 will always be offered a
   Warsong Gulch daily quest, while players levels 11-50 will be
   offered either an Arathi Basin or a Warsong Gulch daily quest,
   etc.).

Death Knights

-  Frost Presence: The damage reduction granted by this ability has
   been increased from 5% to 8%.
-  Pets
   Gnaw: This death knight ghoul ability now has a 1-minute cooldown.
-  Talents
-  Blood
   Heart Strike: Secondary targets of Heart Strike now take half as
   much damage.
   Subversion: Now also increases the critical strike chance of Scourge
   Strike by 3/6/9%.
   Vampiric Blood: Cooldown reduced to 1 minute and duration reduced to
   10 seconds.
-  Frost
   Threat of Thassarian now also causes Rune Strike to use both weapons
   when dual-wielding.
   Unbreakable Armor: Cooldown reduced to 1 minute and changed back to
   granting 25% additional armor while active instead of flat damage
   reduction based on armor. The amount of strength granted has been
   reduced to 10%.
-  Unholy
   Bone Shield: This ability now has 3 charges instead of 4. Cooldown
   reduced to 1 minute.
   Dirge: This talent no longer grants additional runic power from
   using Obliterate.
   
Druids

-  Talents
-  Balance
   Moonkin Form: This form now also reduces the damage the druid takes
   while stunned by 15%.
   Typhoon: The daze duration has been increased from 3 seconds to 6
   seconds.
-  Feral Combat
   Infected Wounds: The debuff generated by this talent no longer
   stacks and instead causes the full effect with a single application.
   Predatory Strikes: This talent now also causes the druid’s finishing
   moves to provide a 7/13/20% chance per combo point to make the next
   Nature spell with a cast time below 10 seconds instant cast.

Hunters

-  Talents
-  Beast Mastery
   The Beast Within: The duration of this talent has been reduced to 10
   seconds. In addition, hunters with this talent will do 10%
   additional damage at all times.
   Bestial Wrath: The duration of this talent has been reduced to 10
   seconds.

Mages

-  Arcane Blast: The buff from using this ability now stacks up to 4
   times instead of 3, and each application increases mana cost by 175%
   instead of 200%. In addition, the duration of the buff has been
   reduced to 6 seconds.
-  Arcane Missiles: Casting this spell while both Missile Barrage and
   Clearcasting are active will cause only Missile Barrage to be
   consumed.
-  Talents
-  Arcane
   Missile Barrage: The effect from triggering this talent now removes
   the mana cost of Arcane Missiles. In addition, the chance for Arcane
   Blast to trigger this talent is now 8/16/24/32/40%. All other listed
   spells continue to have a 4/8/12/16/20% chance to trigger it. This
   talent no longer has a chance to be triggered when spells miss.
-  Fire
   Combustion: This talent now also increases the critical strike
   damage bonus of Fire spells by 50% while it is active. In addition,
   Living Bomb periodic ticks will no longer interact with the count or
   the charges on the talent.

Paladins

-  Righteous Fury: The bonus threat from Holy spells caused by this
   talent has been reduced from 90% to 80%.
-  Seal of Corruption and Seal of Vengeance: These seals will now only
   use the debuff stacks generated by the attacking paladin to
   determine the damage done by the seal and by the judgement.
-  Talents
-  Protection
   Ardent Defender: This talent now reduces damage taken below 35%
   health by 7/13/20% instead of 10/20/30%.
   Blessing of Sanctuary: This blessing now grants 10% strength in
   addition to its current effects. Also, the strength and stamina
   bonuses from this blessing will no longer be lost when Blessing of
   Kings is removed.
   Judgements of the Just: The reduction in cooldown to Hammer of
   Justice provided by this talent has been reduced to 5/10 seconds
   instead of 10/20 seconds.
   Touched by the Light: This talent now provides 20/40/60% of the
   paladin’s strength as spell power instead of 10/20/30% of the
   paladin’s stamina.
-  Retribution
   Seal of Command: This ability now chains to strike up to 2
   additional targets when it is triggered by an attack that can only
   strike a single target.

Priests

-  Talents
-  Shadow
   Improved Spirit Tap: Mind Flay periodic critical strikes now have a
   50% chance to trigger this talent.
   Twisted Faith now grants spell power equal to 4/8/12/16/20% of
   spirit, up from 2/4/6/8/10%.

Rogues

-  Envenom’s scaling has been increased from 7% to 9% of attack power
   per combo point.
-  Fan of Knives: The damage done by this ability has been reduced by
   30%.
-  Talents
-  Assassination
   Master Poisoner: PoisonNo longer increases the Deadly Poison
   application rate following a successful Envenom and instead now
   provides a 33/66/100% chance of preventing Envenom from consuming
   Deadly Poison.
-  Combat
   Throwing Specialization: This talent no longer causes Fan of Knives
   to interrupt spellcasting.
-  Subtlety
   Honor Among Thieves: A 1-second cooldown is now enforced on how
   often a rogue can gain combo points from his party via this talent.

Shamans

-  Flame Shock: The duration of all ranks has been increased by 6
   seconds.
-  Lava Burst: This ability no longer ever consumes a Flame Shock
   debuff off of the target.
-  Talents
-  Elemental Combat
   Shamanism: Your Lightning Bolt and Chain Lightning spells gain an
   additional 3/6/9/12/15% and your Lava Burst gains an additional
   4/8/12/16/20% of your bonus damage effects.
-  Enhancement
   Earthen Power: No longer causes Earthbind to pulse a persistent
   snare immunity aura. It does still remove snares from allies as an
   instant pulse, but there is no lingering immunity. Earthen Power now
   also brings Earth Shock’s melee attack speed reduction up to
   -15%/-20% (with 1 or 2 points in it, respectively).

Warriors

-  Talents
-  Arms
   Sword Specialization: Now has a 2/4/6/8/10% chance to proc an extra
   attack, up from 1/2/3/4/5%.
-  Protection
   Critical Block: This talent now grants a 20/40/60% chance to block
   double the normal amount instead of 10/20/30%.

Dungeons & Raids
	
-  Shadowfang Keep
   Wailing Guardsman: Screams of the Past will no longer have multiple
   applications on a target. Recast time has been increased.
-  Ulduar
   Increased the cooldown on Immortal Guardians' Drain Life ability in
   the Yogg-Saron encounter.

Achievements

-  The Achievement "Iron, Dwarf Medium Rare (25 player)" now requires
   25 kills, down from 50.
-  The Frostwolf Howler and Stormpike Battle Charger Achievements will
   now be awarded when a player learns the respective mount spells.
   
Professions

-  The blacksmiths of Orgrimmar grew tired of running to the rear of
   the city to craft items and have installed a new anvil & forge at
   the General Store in the Valley of Strength.
-  Engineering
   The Mind Amplification Dish no longer changes the appearance of your
   helmet.
-  Inscription
   Added a recipe for Runescroll of Fortitude. This item grants a
   stamina buff equal to the highest rank of Power Word: Fortitude
   (untalented) to all players in the raid. The effect of this
   runescroll is exclusive with stamina scrolls and Power Word:
   Fortitude.
-  Leatherworking
   Added a recipe for Drums of Forgotten Kings. These drums increase
   all stats by 8% for all players in a raid. The effect of these drums
   is exclusive with Blessing of Kings.
   Added a recipe for Drums of the Wild. These drums grant a buff equal
   to the highest rank of Mark of the Wild (untalented) to all players
   in a raid. The effect of these drums is exclusive with Mark of the
   Wild.

Items

-  The Black Heart: This item’s animation has been changed and no
   longer resembles Hand of Protection.
-  Death Knight Tier-9 Tanking 4-Piece Set Bonus: Now decreases the
   cooldown on Vampiric Blood, Unbreakable Armor, and Bone Shield by 10
   seconds instead of 20.
-  Druid Tier-8 Healer 4-Piece Set Bonus: The amount of healing this
   set bonus grants on the initial cast of Rejuvenation has been
   reduced by 50%. In addition, this set bonus no longer has strange
   interactions with Harold’s Rejuvenating Broach.
-  Glyphs
   Glyph of Bone Shield: This glyph now grants 1 additional charge
   instead of 2.
   Glyph of Flame Shock: Redesigned. This glyph now makes Flame Shock
   periodic damage able to be critical strikes.
   Glyph of Mind Flay: This glyph no longer reduces the magnitude of
   the movement reduction on the Mind Flay victim.
   Glyph of Scourge Strike: Redesigned. This glyph now causes Scourge
   Strike to extend the duration of Frost Fever and Blood Plague by 3
   seconds each time Scourge Strike is used on a target, up to a
   maximum of 9 seconds.
   Glyph of Typhoon: This glyph now increases the range on Typhoon by
   10 yards in addition to its current effects.
   Glyph of Unbreakable Armor: Now increases the armor gained from
   Unbreakable Armor by 20%.
   Glyph of Vampiric Blood: The glyph now increases the duration of
   Vampiric Blood by 5 seconds instead of 10.
-  Libram of Obstruction: The buff to block value from this relic is
   now exclusive with the buff to block value from Libram of the Sacred
   Shield; it is impossible to have both buffs at once.
-  Libram of the Sacred Shield: The block value buff from this relic
   has been increased to match its item level.
-  Relics: All buffs provided by relics (idols, librams, totems and
   sigils) now share an exclusive category such that gaining a buff
   from one of these items will remove all other buffs gained from
   items in this category.
-  Totem of Quaking Earth: Attack power value increased to 400.
   
User Interface

-  Battleground Queuing
   Players may now only queue for no more than two Battlegrounds at a
   time.
   The dialog box for entering a Battleground match has been changed to
   reflect the following options: “Enter Battle,” “Leave Queue,” and
   “Minimize.”
   The time a player has to enter a battle when selected has been
   reduced to 40 seconds when not already in a Battleground and 20
   seconds when in a Battleground.
   Players already in a Battleground can now choose “Enter Battle” for
   a new Battleground under any circumstance (i.e. while dead, in
   combat, falling, etc.).
   A new Battleground will not launch until the maximum number of
   players on each side are in the queue (i.e. 40 players per side for
   Alterac Valley).
-  The size of the Focus Frame can now be adjusted via the Interface
   Options menu.
-  Mail System Auto-Complete Feature
   The inline auto-complete feature for the mail system has been added
   back into the game. The mail system will now have both the pre- and
   post-3.2.0 auto-complete features available. 
   Added a label to notify players that the Tab key will allow players
   to navigate through the character names listed via the auto-complete
   feature.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the 
   UI & Macros Forum: 
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&amp;forumId=11114

Bug Fixes

-  Death Knight
   Rune of Razorice: The frost vulnerability granted by this
   enchantment will now increase the damage done by Frost Fever as
   intended.
-  Druid
   Balance of Power: Misleading tooltip reworded. The tooltip
   previously reported an incorrect value for the increased chance to
   hit with spells. The actual benefit of the talent is unchanged.
-  Hunter
   Master’s Call: This ability now correctly removes the snaring
   component of Infected Wounds, Frostfire Bolt, and Slow.
   Trap Mastery’s (Survival) tooltip now states the correct amount of
   snakes summoned.
-  Mage
   Arcane Missiles: Ranks 12 and 13 will now properly cause players to
   enter combat.
-  Paladin
   Hand of Freedom: This ability now correctly removes the snaring
   component of Infected Wounds and Frostfire Bolt.
-  Priest
   Divine Aegis: Ranks 1 and 2 will now work with Holy Nova.
   Glyph of Power Word: Shield now correctly uses the Priest’s spell
   critical chance instead of the target’s.
-  Rogue
   Vanish: This ability now correctly removes the snaring component of
   Frostfire Bolt.
   Honor Among Thieves: This talent will now work properly again if two
   rogues with different ranks of the talent are in the same party.
-  Shaman
   Grounding Totem will now properly protect against the Death Grip
   spell.
   Lava Burst can no longer deal critical damage to targets who are
   immune to critical strikes (due to, e.g. Roar of Sacrifice, Blessed
   Resilience).
   Lightning Shield: This spell will no longer set off some trinkets
   when it is cast.
   Stoneclaw Totem's pulses will no longer break stealth on nearby
   hostile units.
   Thunderstorm and Shamanistic Rage can no longer be used while
   Frozen, Cycloned, Sapped, or Incapacitated.
-  Warlock
   Demonic Circle: This ability now correctly removes the snaring
   component of Frostfire Bolt.
   Fel Armor: This spell was unable to set off trinkets and other
   effects. That has been corrected.
   When using Shadowbolt or Incinerate while having Backlash and
   Backdraft active, only Backlash will now be properly consumed.
-  Coliseum Trinkets: Some spells that should have triggered these
   trinkets will now trigger them (such as Holy Nova and Fel Armor).
-  Death Knight Tier-9 DPS 4-Piece Set Bonus: Now grants the correct
   chance for disease damage ticks to be critical strikes.
-  Hunter Tier-9 2-Piece Set Bonus: Critical damage from Serpent Sting
   will now work properly with the Mortal Shots and Expose Weakness
   talents.
-  Lightweave Embroidery: This tailoring item enhancement will no
   longer trigger from the periodic healing granted by the warlock
   spell Fel Armor.
-  Mote of Flame: Corrected a typo in the tooltip.
-  Paladin Tier-9 DPS 2-Piece Set Bonus: Now grants the correct chance
   for Righteous Vengeance ticks to be critical strikes.
-  Shard of Flame: Corrected a typo in the tooltip.
-  Val’anyr, Hammer of The Ancient Kings: Healing from Prayer of
   Mending now triggers the shield from this item. In addition, a bug
   was corrected which would cause the shield points to be overwritten
   rather than stack up as intended.
   

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.2.0a	(2009-08-19)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We are updating World of Warcraft with a  minor bug fix patch. For updated 
information regarding the changes made in this patch, please visit the official 
General forum at: 
http://forums.wow-europe.com/board.html?forumId=10001&sid=1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.2.0	(2009-08-04)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html

Call of the Crusade

-  Since the opening of the Argent Tournament in northeastern Icecrown,
   adventurers have journeyed from across Azeroth and beyond to prove
   their worth in the heart of the Lich King's domain. Under thundering
   skies the tournament's participants hone the arts of war and face
   off in bone-shattering jousting matches to earn the right to be
   called champions. Yet these heroes have yet to face the greatest
   challenge of all: the Crusaders' Coliseum. Formidable Horde and
   Alliance champions, ferocious beasts, and Scourge lieutenants are
   just some of the opponents awaiting adventurers in this gladiatorial
   arena. Few will survive the coliseum's perils, but the Argent
   Crusade is confident that the worthy heroes who do emerge victorious
   will be ready to join the offensive against Icecrown Citadel and end
   the Lich King's reign of terror.

Isle of Conquest

-  Off the coast of Northrend, Horde and Alliance forces are locked in
   an epic struggle for a tiny island rich in resources. Known as the
   Isle of Conquest, this rocky battleground's proximity to Icecrown
   makes it a highly prized base in the war against the Lich King. Both
   factions have deployed devastating weapons to drive each other from
   this strategic location. Day and night the ground trembles under
   lumbering siege vehicles while monstrous airships pummel enemy
   positions with fiery cannons. The bloody conflict spreads to every
   corner of the island as new heroes arrive to aid their factions. It
   remains to be seen whose banner will wave triumphantly over the Isle
   of Conquest and at what cost victory will be achieved.

General

-  Construction of the Crusaders’ Coliseum is complete. New raid normal
   and Heroic modes for the Crusaders’ Coliseum can be toggled using
   the Dungeon Difficulty setting. This applies to 10 and 25-player
   versions. 10-player (normal), 25-player (normal), 10-player (Heroic)
   and 25-player (Heroic) all share separate raid lockout timers.
-  Trial of the Champion
   5-player (normal and Heroic mode) dungeon.
   Daily quest added to the Heroic daily dungeon quest giver.
-  Trial of the Crusader
   10 and 25-player (normal mode) raid dungeon.
-  Trial of the Grand Crusader
   10 and 25-player (Heroic mode) raid dungeon.
   Crusaders’ Tribute: Active on Heroic difficulty only, the tribute
   system will limit players on the number of attempts the raid is
   allotted each week. Additional rewards can be earned depending on
   the number of attempts left in the tribute run each week when the
   final boss is defeated.
-  Head to the new 40 vs. 40-player siege-style Battleground, the Isle
   of Conquest, to vie for control of a strategic location with a host
   of resources sought by the Horde and Alliance.
-  Two level brackets are available: 71-79 and 80.
-  Defend the walls of your keep and protect your general by killing
   enemy players and destroying their siege vehicles.
-  Capture the Docks, Gunship Hangar, or Siege Workshop for access to
   destructive siege vehicles or strategic attacks on your enemy’s
   base.
-  Capture the Refinery or Quarry for their resources to garner
   reinforcements, a steady flow of bonus honor and a 15% increase to
   siege vehicle damage for each of these capture points your team
   controls.
-  To claim victory, bust through the enemy’s keep walls (or find other
   ways to get inside) and kill their general, or obliterate your
   opponents until their reinforcements are depleted.
-  The Argent Tournament Expands
-  All new Argent Crusader daily quests and rewards have been added for
   players with the Crusader title. Rewards include a new Argent
   Crusader banner and tabard (which can port players to the tournament
   grounds), a mounted squire (can periodically run bank, mail or
   vendor errands for the player), a paladin-exclusive Argent Crusader
   Charger mount and new heirloom items.
-  All new Silver Covenant and Sunreaver daily quests and rewards have
   been added for players exalted with these factions. Rewards include
   tabards, new ground and flying mounts and a new pet.
-  Just when you thought you had seen the last of the Black Knight, he
   makes his astonishing return to the tournament. Wait, didn’t you
   kill him?
-  New Dungeon Loot Feature
   Players will now be able to trade soulbound items with other raid or
   group members that were eligible for the loot. This system will work
   like the Item Buy Back system and allow 2 hours for players to trade
   an item after it has been looted. Players who choose to enchant or
   add gems to the item will get one last confirmation before losing
   the ability to trade the item.
-  New druid art for Cat Form and Bear Form has been added. There are
   now five unique color schemes for each form and faction. Changing
   hair color (night elves) or skin tone (tauren) via the barbershop
   will change the look of one’s cat and bear forms. 

PvP

-  Arenas
-  Beginning with season 7, players will no longer have access to the
   newest season’s weapons or shoulder armor and will not qualify for
   the Gladiator title/rewards with ratings from the 2v2 bracket alone.
   Ratings obtained through 3v3 and 5v5 game play will be required for
   these rewards, while the rest of the newest season’s items will
   remain available to players in all brackets (standard rating
   restrictions still apply).
-  Dalaran Sewers
   The entire Arena has increased in size by 25%.
   Mounts can now be used in this Arena.
   The position and collision of the crates on the central platform has
   been modified.
-  Ring of Valor
   The flame wall has been removed.
-  Ruins of Lordaeron
   Alcoves have been removed from the starting chambers.
   The collision around the central tomb has been smoothed out to
   prevent players from becoming stuck on the terrain as often.
-  Battlegrounds
-  Battleground experience has arrived!
   Players will now be awarded experience for completing objectives and
   actions that yield honor in Battlegrounds (honorable kills not
   included).
   Players who do not wish to gain experience through PvP can visit
   Behsten in Stormwind or Slahtz in Orgrimmar – both located near the
   Battlemasters in either city – and turn off all experience
   accumulation for the cost of 10 gold. 
   Disabling experience gains will prevent a player from gaining
   experience through any means available in the game. 
   Players with experience gains turned off who compete in
   Battlegrounds will face off only against other players with
   experience gains turned off. 
   Behsten and Slahtz can reinstate experience gains for players, for a
   10 gold fee of course. Any experience that would’ve been accumulated
   if experience gains were enabled cannot be recovered.
-  Battlemasters in major cities affiliated with specific Battlegrounds
   have been replaced with a Battlemaster for each faction that will
   allow players to queue for any Battleground. Battlemasters for
   specific Battlegrounds will still be seen around the cities during
   corresponding Battleground holiday weekends.
-  When standing at a capture point that you control, you will gain a
   buff called Honorable Defender. This buff grants +50% honor gained
   from kills. This currently affects Arathi Basin, Eye of the Storm
   and Isle of Conquest.
-  Arathi Basin
   The time it requires to capture a base has been reduced to 8
   seconds, down from 10 seconds.
   The game now ends when one team reaches 1600 victory points, down
   from 2000.
-  Eye of the Storm
   The time it requires to capture the center flag has been reduced to
   8 seconds, down from 10 seconds
   The game now ends when one team reaches 1600 victory points, down
   from 2000.
-  Strand of the Ancients
   The faction starting on attack/defense will now be randomized at the
   start of each match.
-  Warsong Gulch
   There is a now a 20-minute timer on this Battleground. After that
   time, the team with the most flag captures wins. If this would
   result in a tie, the team that captured the first flag wins. If
   neither side has captured a flag, then the game ends in a tie.
-  Wintergrasp
-  Against the Odds: This achievement has been removed and converted to
   a Feat of Strength.
-  Industrial Warfare: This achievement has been removed.
-  To provide players with a more transparent notification of when
   Wintergrasp battles occur, as well as better control zone population
   and stability, several changes have been made.
   Players now have the option to queue for Wintergrasp from a
   Wintergrasp Battlemaster in any capital city or by simply entering
   the Wintergrasp zone.
   Queuing will begin 15 minutes before each battle. If chosen, you
   will automatically be teleported to the zone. Any players in the
   zone who have not been chosen from the queue will be teleported out
   when the battle begins.
   The queue system remains active for the entire battle. As soon as a
   player leaves, a new one will be chosen from the queue.
   Trying to enter Wintergrasp during an active battle for which you
   have not been chosen will teleport you out. Please note that, as you
   are now able to fly over Wintergrasp, you will only be teleported
   out if you try to land and join the battle.
   Level 80 players get higher priority in the queue than lower level
   players. In addition, a random selection of queued players will be
   taken from both the Battlemasters and the zone itself.
   The queue will accept up to 120 players from each faction, resulting
   in a maximum battle of 240 players at a time.
-  Wintergrasp factories can no longer be damaged or destroyed.

Dungeons and Raids

-  Dungeon and Raid ID Extensions
   In order to allow for parties and raids to progress through
   instances at their own pace, players can now extend an instance ID
   on an individual basis.
   Existing or recently expired IDs can be extended via the Social tab
   under Raid by clicking on Raid Info.
   The ID of any instance to which a player is saved can be extended.
   Doing so will extend the instance lock period by the same amount of
   time as the original lock (i.e. extending an Ulduar instance ID will
   add 7 days, a Heroic: Halls of Lightning instance ID will add 24
   hours, and a Zul’Gurub instance ID will add 3 days to the instance
   lock time).
   An ID can be extended more than once.
   An extension can be reversed on an individual basis provided the
   player does not do anything in the instance during the extended
   instance lock period that would save that player to the instance.
-  Emblem System Changes
   Both the 10 and 25-player instances of the Crusaders’ Coliseum drop
   a new Emblem of Triumph.
   Any dungeons that previously dropped Emblems of Heroism or Valor,
   such as Naxxramas or Heroic Halls of Stone, will now drop Emblems of
   Conquest instead. Emblems of Conquest can still be converted to
   Valor or Heroism.
   The Heroic dungeon daily quest will now reward 2 Emblems of Triumph
   and the normal daily dungeon quest will reward 1 Emblem of Conquest.
   New achievements have been added to collect various amounts of any
   combination of emblems.
-  25-player raids will no longer be referred to as Heroic versions of
   a raid, as there is a new distinction between normal and Heroic
   modes for both 10 and 25 player versions of the Crusaders’ Coliseum.
-  The Nexus: The Oculus & The Eye of Eternity
   Drakes used by players in these instances will now scale in health
   and damage according to the rider's average item level.
-  Ulduar
   Players can now use Blink, Shadowstep, and Demonic Teleport while
   participating in the illusion events in the Yogg-Saron encounter.
-  Ominous Clouds in the Yogg-Saron encounter are now more vocal about
   touching players and should no longer sometimes appear to be in the
   wrong place for certain players.
-  An Immortal Guardian targeted for Empowering Shadows in the
   Yogg-Saron encounter will now become a 'Marked Immortal Guardian'
   while targeted.
-  Crusher Tentacles in the Yogg-Saron encounter spawn a little slower
   in 25-player mode allowing a bit more time for players to clear out
   the Illusion room.
-  Empowering Shadows in the Yogg-Saron encounter now targets a maximum
   of three Immortal Guardians in 25-player mode.
-  Yogg-Saron's health has been reduced by 20% in the final stage of
   his 25-player mode.
-  Winter Jormungars will no longer put everyone in the zone in combat
   when they emerge from a Snow Mound. Additionally, Snow Mounds will
   now disappear when all their jormungars have emerged.
   
Races: General

-  Axe Specialization (Orc): The weapon bonus from this effect now
   applies to fist weapons in addition to axes.
-  Tauren now have the option of changing skin tone by visiting the
   barber shop.

Items: General

-  Agility: The amount of agility required per percentage of dodge has
   been increased by 15%. This change required recalibrating the amount
   of dodge a player has with 0 agility by a slight amount as well, so
   all players will see their dodge percentage vary a small amount.
-  Block Value: The amount of bonus block value on all items has been
   doubled. This does not affect the base block value on shields or
   block value derived from strength.
-  On-Use Block Value Items: All items and set bonuses that trigger
   temporary increases to block value have been modified. Instead of
   increasing their block value amount by 100% like other items, they
   have all had their effect durations doubled. This applies to Glyph
   of Deflection, Gnomeregan Autoblocker, Coren’s Lucky Coin,
   Lavanthor’s Talisman, Libram of Obstruction, Tome of the
   Lightbringer, Libram of the Sacred Shield, the tier-8 paladin Shield
   of Righteousness bonus, the tier-5 paladin Holy Shield bonus, and
   the tier-5 warrior Shield Block bonus.
-  Dodge Rating: The amount of dodge rating required per percentage of
   dodge has been increased by 15%. This is before diminishing returns.
   Combined with other changes, this makes dodge rating and parry
   rating equally potent before diminishing returns apply.
-  Item Buy Back Feature Revised
   The Item Buy Back time will now expire if the player enchants or
   sockets an item. Players will see a confirmation dialog box now when
   they attempt to enchant or add gems to an item giving them a last
   chance to reconsider.
-  Items with Triggered Effects: These items generally have cooldowns
   on how often they can be triggered. Those cooldowns are now
   triggered each time the item is equipped (example: A trinket has a
   45-second cooldown on an effect triggered by player attacks; when a
   player equips that item, the effect will be unable to be triggered
   for the first 45 seconds it is worn).
-  Mounts
   The cast time for summoning any ground mount is now 1.5 seconds, 
   down from 3 seconds.
   Apprentice Riding (Skill 75): Can now be learned at level 20 for 4
   gold. Mail will be sent to players who reach level 20 directing them
   to the riding trainer.
   Journeyman Riding (Skill 150): Can now be learned at level 40 for 50
   gold. Mail will be sent to players who reach level 40 directing them
   back to the riding trainer.
   Expert Riding (Skill 225): Can now be learned at level 60 for 600
   gold from trainers in Honor Hold or Thrallmar. Faction discounts now
   apply (Honor Hold for Alliance; Thrallmar for Horde). Flight speed
   at this skill level has been increased to 150% of run speed, up from
   60%.
   Artisan Riding (Skill 300): Faction discounts now apply (Honor Hold
   or Valiance Expedition for Alliance; Thrallmar or Warsong Offensive
   for Horde).
   In order to further equalize the number of purchasable mounts
   available to each race, a new 60% speed ground mount has been added
   for night elves, and a new 100% speed ground mount has been added
   for the undead.
   Flying over Dalaran and Wintergrasp is now possible so long as
   players keep a healthy distance above the ground.
-  Mana Regeneration: All items that provide “X mana per five seconds”
   have had the amount of mana they regenerate increased by
   approximately 25%.
-  Parry Rating: The amount of parry rating required per percentage of
   parry has been reduced by 8%. This is before diminishing returns.
   Combined with other changes, this makes dodge rating and parry
   rating equally potent before diminishing returns apply. Parry still
   diminishes more quickly than dodge.
-  Resilience: No longer reduces the amount of damage done by
   damage-over-time spells, but instead reduces the amount of all
   damage done by players by the same proportion. In addition, the
   amount of resilience needed to reduce critical strike chance,
   critical strike damage and overall damage has been increased by 15%.
   
Classes: General

-  All pets now receive 40% of their master’s resilience and 100% of
   their master’s spell penetration. In addition, if a player is at
   their appropriate spell hit chance or hit chance maximum, their pet
   will be at the maximum for spell hit chance, hit chance, and
   expertise. If they are below the maximum, their pet will be
   proportionately below those maximums.
-  Replenishment: This buff now grants 1% of the target’s maximum mana
   over 5 seconds instead of 0.25% per second. This applies to all 5
   sources of Replenishment (Vampiric Touch, Judgements of the Wise,
   Hunting Party, Enduring Winter Frostbolts and Soul Leech).
-  Silence, Strangulate, Silencing Shot, and Arcane Torrent: These
   abilities will also apply a 3-second Interrupt effect against
   non-player controlled targets, making them more versatile against
   creatures immune to silencing effects.

Death Knights

-  Due to significant talent changes, all death knight talents will be
   reset for players.
-  Blood Plague: Damage done increased by 15%.
-  Chains of Ice: Now reduces movement by 95% instead of 100%. The main
   effect of this change will be that targets of Chains of Ice will not
   have to re-issue a movement command to continue moving.
-  Frost Fever: Damage done increased by 15%.
-  Frost Presence: 10% bonus health reduced to 6% bonus stamina.
-  Frost Strike: This ability can now be dodged, parried, or blocked.
   Weapon damage bonus reduced to 55%, down from 60%.
-  Icebound Fortitude: Cooldown increased to 2 minutes.
-  Talents
-  Blood
   Bloody Strikes: This talent now provides 5/10/15% increased damage
   to Blood Strike instead of 15/30/45%.
   Dancing Rune Weapon: This ability now has a fixed duration of 12
   seconds (which can still be modified by its glyph) and a fixed cost
   of 60 runic power.
-  Veteran of the Third War: Stamina bonus reduced to 1/2/3%.
-  Frost
   Blood of the North: Reduced to a 3-point talent. Increases Blood
   Strike and Frost Strike damage by 3/6/10%. There is now a
   33/66/100% chance whenever you hit with Blood Strike or Pestilence
   that the Blood Rune will become a Death Rune when it activates.
   Lichborne: Duration reduced to 10 seconds, and cooldown reduced to
   2 minutes.
   Threat of Thassarian: New 3-point talent. When dual-wielding, your
   Death Strikes, Obliterates, Plague Strikes, Blood Strikes and Frost
   Strikes have a 30/60/100% chance to also deal damage with your
   off-hand weapon. Off-hand strikes are roughly one half the effect of
   the original strike. 
   Toughness: This talent now grants 2/4/6/8/10% armor instead of
   3/6/9/12/15%, placing it in line with similar abilities of other
   classes.
-  Unholy
   Desecration: This talent has been reduced to 2 points for 25/50%
   snare and no longer increases damage done by the death knight. It
   has also been moved one tier earlier in the tree and its spell
   effect has been made more transparent.
   Desolation: New talent. This talent is in the position formerly
   occupied by Desecration. It causes Blood Strikes to increase all
   damage the death knight deals by 1/2/3/4/5% for 12 seconds.
   Scourge Strike: Weapon damage bonus reduced to 40%, down from 45%.
   Damage increased by 10% per disease on the target, down from 11%.
   Summon Gargoyle: The gargoyle now flies lower to the ground, making
   it susceptible to melee attacks. This ability now has a fixed
   duration of 30 seconds and a fixed cost of 60 runic power.
   Unholy Blight: This talent has been redesigned. It no longer deals
   damage to nearby targets. Instead, when you deal damage with Death
   Coil, the target will take periodic damage for 10 seconds equal to
   20% of the damage done by Death Coil. This damage accumulates in the
   same way as Ignite and Deep Wounds.

Druids

-  Enrage: This Bear Form ability now generates 20 rage initially, and
   10 rage over the next 10 seconds. The armor penalty is unchanged.
-  Flight Form: Can now be learned at level 60. Flight speed increased
   to 150%.
-  Flight Form and Swift Flight Form: Now benefit from a paladin’s
   Crusader Aura.
-  Innervate: Duration reduced to 10 seconds, and cooldown reduced to 3
   minutes. This means each use of Innervate will give half as much
   mana as before, but it will be available twice as often.
-  Lifebloom: The final heal that occurs when this spell blooms has
   been reduced by 20% on the base and on the spell power coefficient.
-  Mangle: Ranks 4 and 5 base points reduced by about 11%. Scaling from
   attack power unchanged.
-  Rake: Ranks 6 and 7 base points on initial and periodic damage
   reduced by about 7%. Scaling from attack power unchanged.
-  Rip: Ranks 8 and 9 base points and points per combo point reduced by
   about 6%. Scaling from attack power unchanged.
-  Savage Defense: The animation for gaining this buff will no longer
   make the bear stand upright.
-  Shred: Ranks 8 and 9 base points reduced by about 10%. Scaling from
   attack power unchanged.
-  Swift Flight Form: Druids who have acquired a mount able to go 310%
   flight speed will now also go that speed while in this form.
-  Swipe (Cat): Percent of weapon damage done reduced from 260% to
   250%.
-  Travel Form: Can now be learned at level 16.
-  Talents
-  Balance
   Balance of Power: Now reduces all spell damage taken by 3/6%, rather
   than reducing the chance to be hit by spells by 2/4%.
   Eclipse: The Starfire and Wrath buffs from this talent are now on
   separate 30-second cooldowns. In addition, it is not possible to
   have both buffs active simultaneously.
   Owlkin Frenzy: Now also restores 2% base mana every 2 seconds for
   the duration (10 seconds) in addition to its current effects.
-  Feral Combat
   King of the Jungle: This talent now reduces the mana cost of Bear
   Form, Cat Form, and Dire Bear Form by 20/40/60%.
   Primal Tenacity: This talent no longer reduces the mana cost of Bear
   Form, Cat Form, and Dire Bear Form.
-  Restoration
   Empowered Touch: Now also increases the amount of bonus healing
   effects for Nourish by 10/20%.
   Improved Barkskin: No longer provides dispel resistance to all
   effects on the druid, but now reduces the chance your Barkskin is
   dispelled by an additional 35/70%.

Hunters

-  Aspect of the Cheetah: Can now be learned at level 16.
-  Deterrence: This ability now allows the hunter to parry spells and
   attacks from behind as well as in front. Now has a new visual spell
   effect.
-  Frost Trap: Will no longer “fizzle” on targets immune to snare
   effects, however Lock and Load will not succeed when using Frost
   Trap if the target is immune to snare effects.
-  Snake Trap: The Mind-numbing Poison effect has been reduced to a 30%
   increase in casting time, down from 50% to match similar effects.
-  The time that traps will exist in the world after being put down has
   been reduced to 30 seconds, down from 1 minute.
-  Traps now have separate 30-second cooldown categories: Fire
   (Immolation Trap, Explosive Trap and Black Arrow), Frost (Freezing
   Trap, Frost Trap) and Nature (Snake Trap). A hunter can have one
   trap of each category placed at one time.
-  Talents
-  Beast Mastery
   Catlike Reflexes now also reduces the cooldown of your Kill Command
   ability by 10/20/30 seconds.
-  Survival
   Entrapment: This talent no longer works with Immolation Trap or
   Explosive Trap.
   Lock and Load: Now has a 22-second cooldown. The Lock and Load
   effect cannot be obtained on targets immune to snare effects when
   Frost Trap is used.
-  Pets
   Roar of Sacrifice: Redesigned. This ability can now be used on any
   friendly target to make that target immune to critical strikes, but
   the hunter pet takes 20% of all damage taken by that friendly
   target. Cooldown is now 1 minute, up from 30 seconds.

Mages

-  Arcane Blast: Mana cost reduced by 12%.
-  Frost Bolt, Cone of Cold, Frost Ward, Ice Armor, Frost Armor, Frost
   Nova, Ice Lance, and Ice Barrier: The mana cost on these spells has
   been reduced by approximately 15%.
-  Invisibility: Can no longer be interrupted by a hostile action or
   damage done during the 3-second Fade time, however an invisible mage
   is still vulnerable to Stun and Silence effects.
-  Mirror Image: Images will no longer trigger the death sound when
   their time expires.
-  Talents
-  Fire
   Empowered Fire: In addition to its existing effects, this talent now
   also grants a 33/67/100% chance to regain 2% of base mana each time
   the Ignite talent deals damage.
-  Frost
   Empowered Frostbolt: Instead of increasing critical strike chance by
   2/4%, this talent now reduces the cast time of Frostbolt by 0.1/0.2
   seconds.
   Permafrost: In addition to its existing effects, this talent now
   also causes the mage’s Chill effects to reduce healing received by
   the victim by 7/13/20%.

Paladins

-  Blessing of Sanctuary: This blessing now also increases stamina by
   10%. This effect is not cumulative with Blessing of Kings.
-  Charger: Can now be learned at level 40.
-  Crusader Aura: This ability now also grants its flying speed
   increase to a druid’s Flight Form and Swift Flight Form.
-  Exorcism: Now has a 1.5 second cast time, but can once again be used
   on players.
-  Hand of Reckoning: Redesigned. Now does damage only when the target
   does not currently have the caster targeted, but damage done
   increased to 50% of attack power, occurring after the taunt effect
   is applied.
-  Judgements: Some of these attacks were considered ranged and some
   melee. They are all now considered melee attacks that can’t be
   dodged, parried or blocked.
-  Judgement of Light: Now heals for 2% of the attacker’s maximum
   health instead of a variable amount based on the spell power and
   attack power of the judging paladin.
-  Lay on Hands: The buff from this ability now reduces the physical
   damage taken by the target by 10/20% instead of increasing the
   target’s armor.
-  Righteous Fury: No longer has a duration, remaining until cancelled
   or death. Also cancelled when a Paladin activates a different talent
   specialization.
-  Sacred Shield: When a paladin casts Flash of Light on a target with
   this buff, they also now place a heal-over-time effect on the
   target, healing that target for 100% of the Flash of Light amount
   over 12 seconds.
-  Seal of Blood: This ability has been removed.
-  Seal of the Martyr: This ability has been removed.
-  Seal of Vengeance and Seal of Corruption: These seals have been
   redesigned to deal substantially more damage. Now, once a paladin
   has 5 copies of the debuff from these seals on his or her target, on
   each swing the paladin will deal 33% weapon damage as Holy, with
   critical strikes dealing double damage. In addition, the
   damage-over-time effect is now considered a melee attack instead of
   a spell attack and the effects from these seals can only be
   triggered by auto-attacks and Hammer of the Righteous.
-  Shield of Righteousness: Now deals 100% of shield block value as
   damage instead of 130%. In addition, the benefit from additional
   block value this ability gains is now subject to diminishing
   returns. Diminishing returns occur once block value exceeds 30 times
   the player’s level and caps the maximum damage benefit from shield
   block value at 34.5 times the player’s level.
-  Warhorse: Can now be learned at level 20.
-  Talents
-  Holy
   Beacon of Light: The healing amount on the Beacon of Light target is
   now based on the total healing done (including over-healing) instead
   of the effective healing done. Radius increased to 60 yards.
   Multiple Paladins can now have this active on the same target. Buff
   indicating a player is within range of the Beacon target is no
   longer displayed.
   Divine Intellect: This talent now gives 2/4/6/8/10% increased
   intellect instead of 3/6/9/12/15%.
   Illumination: This talent now returns 30% of the mana cost of the
   spell instead of 60%.
-  Protection
   Ardent Defender: Redesigned. Any damage that takes the paladin below
   35% health is reduced. This reduction applies only to the portion
   that pushes the paladin below 35% health (example: a paladin at 50%
   health takes a 40% hit; the first 15% hits as normal while the next
   25% is reduced). In addition, once every 2 minutes an attack that
   would have killed the paladin will fail to kill, and instead heal
   the paladin for up to 10/20/30% of maximum health depending on the
   paladin’s defense rating (example: a paladin with defense equal to
   only 5 times his or her level will receive no healing from the
   talent, while a paladin who is immune to critical strikes from boss
   creatures through defense will receive the maximum amount).
-  Guarded by the Light: This talent will no longer cause Divine Plea’s
   duration to be refreshed by using Judgement of Wisdom, Judgement of
   Justice, or Judgement of Light.
-  Retribution
   Art of War: Now only applies to melee critical hits, but will make
   your next Flash of Light or Exorcism instant. In addition, this
   talent now provides notification in the floating combat text when it
   activates.
   Crusader Strike: Damage reduced to 75% weapon damage to match the
   new 4-second cooldown. Mana cost reduced to 5% of base mana.
   Seal of Command: Redesigned. This seal now deals 36% weapon damage
   on every swing, and deals substantially less judgement damage.
   Vindication: Redesigned. Now lowers target attack power, is
   consistent and does not stack with Demoralizing Shout.

Priests

-  Prayer of Healing: The percentage of spell power this spell gains in
   healing (per target) has been reduced from 80.7% to 52.6%.
-  Psychic Horror: This spell no longer has an invisible missile, so
   there is no travel time before the spell takes effect.
-  Talents
-  Discipline
   Penance: Cooldown increased to 12 seconds, up from 10 seconds.
-  Holy
   Inspiration: The buff from this ability now reduces the physical
   damage taken by the target by 3/7/10% instead of increasing the
   target’s armor.
-  Shadow
   Dispersion: Cooldown reduced to 2 minutes, down from 3 minutes.
   Improved Mind Blast: Redesigned. Now, in addition to reducing the
   cooldown of your Mind Blast spell by .5/1/1.5/2/2.5 seconds, while
   in Shadowform your Mind Blast also has a 20/40/60/80/100% chance to
   reduce all healing done to the target by 20% for 10 seconds.
   Vampiric Touch: The amount of damage done when this spell is
   dispelled has been doubled.

Rogues

-  After much quiet contemplation, rogues now possess the ability to
   learn how to use one-handed axes.
-  Talents
-  Combat
   Sword Specialization: This talent is now called Hack and Slash and
   applies to axes as well as swords.
-  Subtlety
   Shadow Dance: Cooldown reduced to 1 minute. Now lasts 6 seconds,
   down from 10 seconds.

Shamans

-  A customizable totem bar will now be available for shamans allowing
   the storing of 4 different totems. These totems can be placed on the
   ground at once in one global cooldown for the combined mana cost of
   all 4 totems.
-  All Shocks now have a default range of 25 yards, up from 20 yards.
-  Base health increased by approximately 7% to correct for shamans
   having lower health than other classes.
-  Chain Heal: Jump distance increased by 25% to 12.5 yards. In
   addition, the amount of healing now decreases by 40% as it jumps to
   each new target, instead of 50%.
-  Earth Shock: Redesigned. This spell no longer interrupts spell
   casting, but rather reduces melee attack speed by 10% for 8 seconds
   (exclusive with similar effects such as Thunder Clap).
-  Ghost Wolf: Can now be learned at level 16. While in this form,
   snaring effects may not bring the shaman below base normal run
   speed.
-  Wind Shock: Has been renamed Wind Shear and no longer shares a
   cooldown with Flame, Frost or Earth Shock.
-  Talents
-  Enhancement
   Maelstrom Weapon: Now also has a chance to reduce the cast time of
   Hex.
   Shamanistic Rage: Cooldown is now 1 minute, down from 2 minutes.
   Successful melee attacks now have a chance to generate mana equal to
   15% of the shaman’s attack power, down from 30%.
-  Restoration
   Cure Poison and Cure Disease: Combined into a single spell, Cure
   Toxins.
   Earth Shield: Dispel effects will now remove charges of Earth Shield
   rather than the entire aura.
   Ancestral Healing: The buff from this ability now reduces the
   physical damage taken by the target by 3/7/10% instead ofincreasing
   the target’s armor.
   Healing Way: Redesigned. Rather than providing a chance of
   increasing Healing Wave spells on a friendly target, this talent now
   innately increases the effectiveness of the shaman’s Healing Wave by
   8/16/25%.
   Mana Tide Totem: Totem health now equal to 10% of the shaman’s
   health.
   Nature’s Guardian: Redesigned. Now has a fixed 100% proc rate, has a
   30-second internal cooldown and increases the shaman’s maximum
   health by 3/6/9/12/15% for 10 seconds.
   Nature’s Swiftness: Cooldown is now 2 minutes, down from 3 minutes.
   Tidal Waves: No longer reduces the cast time of Lesser Healing Wave
   by 30%.  It instead now provides +25% critical strike chance to
   Lesser Healing Wave, along with the previous 30% cast time benefit
   to Healing Wave.
   Improved Water Shield: This talent now has a 10/20/30% chance to be
   triggered by Chain Heal, and the charges of Water Shield are no\
   longer consumed by this talent.

Warlocks

-  Banish: Effect will now be cancelled if Banish is recast on a
   banished target.
-  Dreadsteed: Can now be learned at level 40.
-  Felsteed: Can now be learned at level 20.
-  Shadowflame: The angle of the cone effect on this ability was
   inadvertently very small, making it difficult to use. Its cone is
   now the same size as similar spells, such as Cone of Cold.
-  Soulshatter cooldown reduced to 3 minutes, down from 5 minutes
-  Talents
-  Affliction
   Pandemic: Now also increases the critical damage bonus of Haunt by
   100%.
-  Demonology
   Fel Domination cooldown reduced to 3 minutes, down from 15 minutes.
-  Destruction
   Empowered Imp: The warlock’s critical hit chance is increased to
   100%, up from 20% for the next spell cast after the Imp critically
   hits a target.
   Fire and Brimstone: Reduced to 2/4/6/8/10% increased damage from
   Incinerate and Chaos Bolt on targets afflicted with Immolate, down
   from 3/6/9/12/15%.

Warriors

-  Battle Shout: Radius increased to 30 yards.
-  Bloodrage: This ability now generates 20 rage initially, and 10 rage
   over the next 10 seconds. The health cost is unchanged.
-  Commanding Shout: Radius increased to 30 yards.
-  Execute: This ability now never costs more than a total of 30 rage.
   The tooltip for Sudden Death has been revised to remove reference to
   that maximum, since the ability now behaves that way even when
   untalented.
-  Shield Slam: The benefit from additional block value this ability
   gains is now subject to diminishing returns. Diminishing returns
   occur once block value exceeds 30 times the player’s level and caps
   the maximum damage benefit from shield block value at 34.5 times the
   player’s level.
-  Talents
-  Fury
   Armored to the Teeth: This talent now provides 1/2/3 attack power
   per 108 armor, up from per 180 armor.
   Bloodsurge: Notification that Slam has become instant now appears in
   floating combat text.
-  Protection
   Devastate: Weapon damage and bonus per Sunder Armor on the target
   increased by 100%. This ability now requires a shield to be
   equipped.
   Shield Specialization: Now provides 5 rage on a block, dodge or
   parry instead of 2 rage on a block.

User Interface

-  The quest log is now double-paned for more easily viewing quest
   information. The list of all quests a player has will show in one
   pane, while the quest details of any highlighted quest will display
   in the next.
-  Character name auto-completion for the chat frame, pop-ups, and mail
   interface is now active.
-  Character names can now be colorized according to class in the chat
   frame. This feature can be enabled through the chat settings by
   right-clicking on a chat window.
-  Casting bars under the target frame, focus frame and nameplates will
   now display as shielded if the cast cannot be interrupted.
-  Druids will now be able to see their mana bars when shape-shifted.
-  Item Comparisons: Holding the shift key while hovering over an item
   will now display the stat differences with the item currently
   equipped in the relevant slot.
-  Item Level: A new option has been added under Display in the
   Interface Options to show the item level on item tooltips.
-  Macros and scripts will no longer be able to target totems by name.
-  New Feature Icons: Options recently added to any of the options
   menus will now display a yellow exclamation point next to them to
   indicate that they are new features.
-  Vendor prices will now be listed on items whether or not players are
   at a vendor.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the UI & 
   Macros Forum: 
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&amp;forumId=11114

Graphics

-  The frame rate for those with Shadow Effects enabled under the Ultra
   Video settings has been improved.

World Environment

-  Wolvar and Gorloc orphans have arrived in Dalaran and need your
   help! Players can find out more by visiting the Eventide District
   (completing the quests being offered for this event will not count
   toward any Children’s Week achievements). Players have a limited
   amount of time to care for these orphans before they take their
   leave. They will then return again for the regularly-scheduled
   Children’s Week next year.
-  Portal areas in all major cities now offer a portal to the Blasted
   Lands near the Dark Portal.
-  Once crossing through the Dark Portal, players can access a flight
   path directly from the Stair of Destiny to Shattrath.
-  A new zeppelin docking ramp has been added to Thunder Bluff allowing
   Horde players easier transport to and from Orgrimmar.
-  The local Postal Service has grown tired of walking so far each day
   to collect mail and has decided to install a large number of new
   mailboxes in Stormwind, Undercity, Darnassus and Orgrimmar.
-  Mathiel in Darnassus has finally earned himself enough money from
   your repair bills that he was able to buy himself an anvil.

Quests

-  The ravasaur trainer Mor’vek has returned to Un’Goro and will offer
   to help Horde players raise and train a Venomhide Ravasaur as a
   mount… if they can survive the creature’s deadly poison.

Achievements

-  A Brew-FAST Mount: A new Feat of Strength achievement for acquiring
   any epic Brewfest mount. 
-  Have Keg, Will Travel: Now requires either a Brewfest mount or using
   Brewfest Hops to transform yours into one.

Professions

-  Alchemy
-  All stackable potions now stack to 20.
-  Added a new pattern for Flask of the North, usable by players with a
   high alchemy skill. The recipe is purchased from Northrend trainers.
-  Flask of the North increases your spell power, attack power or
   strength for 1 hour and is usable in Arenas. It is not consumed when
   used.
-  Endless Healing Potion and Endless Mana Potion no longer usable in
   arenas. Amount of health and mana has been increased, and the
   cooldown reduced.
-  Five new epic gem transmute recipes are available from the Northrend
   trainer. The recipe for transmuting a Cardinal Ruby can be learned
   from a quest, given by Linzy Blackbolt in Dalaran.
-  The Mixology benefits from Northrend elixirs and flasks have been
   increased.
-  Rage potions can now be used by druids.
-  Cooking
-  Chef’s Hat is now superior quality and allows the chef to cook
   faster.
-  Blackened Dragonfin Recipe: Now only requires 1 Dragonfin Angelfish.
-  Increased the drop rate for recipes from the Outland Daily Cooking
   quests.
-  Increased the chance to get a bonus Dalaran Cooking Token from the
   Spice Bag.
-  The recipe for Captain Rumsey's Lager can now be randomly found in
   the quest reward Crate, Barrel, or Spice Bag from the cooking
   dailies.
-  Enchanting
-  Values on Northrend ring enchants increased.
-  Engineering
-  Added a new Mind Amplification Dish attachment for helmets, allowing
   engineers to control other humanoid targets. Some restrictions
   apply: does not work in Arenas, dish sometimes reverses targets,
   unable to stack with other stat-improving head enchantments and
   makes your helmet look... stylish? This attachment provides a
   passive bonus of 45 stamina.
-  Added a schematic for a Goblin Welding Beam that can heal friendly
   mechanical or vehicle units.
-  Alarm-o-Bot functionality changed. Materials required reduced.
-  Box of Bombs no longer requires an anvil.
-  The Cobalt Frag Bomb now incapacitates enemies within a 3-yard
   radius. A short cast time was added, but they are usable while
   moving. This change applies to any Cobalt Frag Bombs already
   created. The existing recipe now makes 3 at a time.
-  Engineers can now learn to create a portable Wormhole Generator for
   Northrend. The Wormhole allows them to travel to different locations
   in Northrend, although the locations are sometimes in dangerous
   places.
-  Flying Machine: The level requirement needed to learn how to build
   and use this machine has been reduced to level 60, down from level
   70, and the engineering skill level reduced to 300, down from 350.
   Material costs reduced.
-  Gnomish Engineers and Goblin Engineers can now switch profession
   specializations for a fee.
-  Increased benefits from Hyperspeed Accelerators, Hand-Mounted Pyro
   Rocket and Reticulated Armor Webbing glove modifications.
-  Increased the passive bonuses provided by Springy Arachnoweave,
   Flexweave Underlay and Nitro Boosts.
-  Mote Extractor now has innate tracking for gas clouds while it is in
   your inventory. Tracking of gas clouds has been removed from
   goggles.
-  A new repair bot has been added, and his name is Jeeves. He is the
   ultimate gentleman robot butler, able to perform all the mundane
   tasks of repairing, selling and buying junk for your entire raid.
   Additionally, he can open bank boxes for skilled engineers (350+).
   Jeeves is not destroyed when used, but due to pressing engagements,
   can only be summoned once an hour. The schematic for this handsome
   robot was said to be hidden within the parts of another robot –
   hoping to be found by an engineer one day.
-  Nitro Boosts: Now have a 5-second duration.
-  Potion Injectors now increase the amount gained by 25% when used by
   engineers. Quantity produced by recipes for Runic Healing and Mana
   Injectors has been increased.
-  Reduced the materials needed to create all engineering Dragonlings,
   and reduced their cooldowns, although they still cannot be used in
   Arenas.
-  Significantly reduced the cooldown on MOLL-E.
-  The Spynocular belt attachment has been changed to a Frag Belt. The
   Frag Belt periodically produces a Cobalt Frag Bomb that can be used
   from the belt every 6 minutes (never runs out!).
-  A Steam-Powered Auctioneer has been added to the Dalaran Like
   Clockwork engineering shop, allowing access to one's faction Auction
   House. The Steam-Powered Auctioneer was programmed with a
   superiority chip, and will only interact with Grand Master
   engineers.
-  Transporter devices are no longer classified as trinkets and can be
   used directly from your inventory.
-  The Ultrasafe Bullet Machine and Saronite Arrow Maker schematics
   have been simplified to create a full stack of the appropriate
   ammunition. No longer requires an anvil. Reduced the materials
   required to make this ammunition.
-  World Enlarger: Cooldown reduced to 15 minutes, down from 1 hour.
-  Fishing
-  Players with 300 or higher cooking have a chance to find a
   Waterlogged Recipe in the Bag of Fishing Treasures awarded by the
   Northrend fishing dailies. This item can be traded to other players
   and rewards several Dalaran Cooking Rewards when turned in.
-  Herbalism
-  Increased healing from Lifeblood (Rank 6).
-  Lifeblood now scales slightly with maximum health. No longer
   affected by global cooldown.
-  Inscription
-  Added a new Glyph of Claw for young feral druids who haven't yet
   obtained Mangle. Scribes can learn this glyph from the trainer.
-  Master's Inscriptions increased.
-  Jewelcrafting
-  Dragon's Eye gems stat bonuses increased. In addition, these gems
   are no longer prismatic and must be matched to the appropriate
   colored socket to activate an item's socket bonus.
-  New recipes have been added for cutting epic gems and can be
   purchased using Dalaran Jewelcrafter’s tokens.
-  Icy Prism now has a chance of yielding an epic gem.
-  Raw epic gems can be obtained via the following means:
   Prospecting Titanium Ore
   Alchemy transmutations
   Purchased with honor
   Purchased with Emblems of Heroism
-  Leatherworking
-  Added recipe for Heavy Knothide Leather to leatherworking trainers
   (rather than a vendor recipe). Changed several recipes to use Heavy
   Knothide Leather instead of regular Leather.
-  Fur Lining values increased.
-  Mining
-  Toughness (Rank 6) provides more stamina.
-  Skinning
-  Master of Anatomy (Rank 6) provides more critical strike rating.
-  Tailoring
-  Embroideries improved.

Items

-  Feral Druid PvP Gloves (seasons 3 and 4): Maim bonus changed from
   the Interrupt bonus used in The Burning Crusade Arena seasons to the
   cost reduction used in Wrath of the Lich King Arena seasons.
-  Glyphs
-  Death Knights
   Glyph of Unholy Blight: Changed to increase damage done by the
   updated Unholy Blight talent by 40%.
-  Druids
   Glyph of Innervate: Duration reduced to 10 seconds.
-  Paladins
   Glyph of Righteous Defense: Now also increases the chance for Hand
   of Reckoning to hit.
   Glyph of Seal of Command: Redesigned to cause the Paladin to gain 8%
   of base mana each time the paladin judges Command.
   Glyph of Seal of Blood: Changed to Glyph of Holy Wrath, which
   reduces its cooldown by 15 seconds.
-  Rogues
   Glyph of Shadow Dance: Now increases the duration of Shadow Dance by
   2 seconds, down from 4 seconds.
   Glyph of Tricks of the Trade: Now increases the duration of the
   damage bonus effect instead of increasing the damage bonus.
-  Shamans
   Glyph of Healing Wave: The amount of healing the shaman receives is
   now based on the entire healing amount, including over-healing.
-  Warlocks
   Glyph of Lifetap: Duration of the buff from this glyph increased to
   40 seconds.
-  Idol of the Corruptor: The agility buff from this idol is now
   exclusive with the agility buff from Idol of Terror.
-  Mage Tier-7 2-Piece Bonus: Now grants 25% additional mana from mana
   gems, down from 40%.
-  Non-Combat Pets: 8 new pets have been added (not including Argent
   Tournament rewards). Raptor Hatchlings can be found on rare and
   elite raptors throughout the game world. In addition, an Obsidian
   Raptor Hatchling can be purchased from Breanni in Dalaran.
-  Tome of Cold Weather Flight: New heirloom item. Players who have
   reached level 80 can now purchase this book for 1,000 gold from Hira
   Snowdawn, the Cold Weather Flying Trainer in Dalaran. Similar to
   other heirloom items, this item can be mailed to other characters of
   the same realm, account and faction. The book is consumed when read
   training the character in Cold Weather Flying. Requires level 68.
-  Val’anyr, Hammer of Ancient Kings: This item’s stats and level have
   been increased to match the power level of healer weapons coming
   from the Coliseum 25-person normal difficulty instance. In addition,
   each time Val’anyr is equipped, Blessing of Ancient Kings will be
   placed on a 45-second cooldown before it can occur.


Bug Fixes

-  Death Knights
-  Anti-Magic Shell: The tooltip for this ability will now reflect
   modifications from the Magic Suppression talent.
-  Blood-Caked Blade: The damage from this talent is no longer
   normalized to weapon speed.
-  Chilblains: Icy Clutch can no longer miss when Frost Fever hits,
   however, when Frost Fever is dispelled Icy Clutch will also be
   dispelled.
-  Dancing Rune Weapon: The rune weapon will no longer cast Corpse
   Explosion.
-  Desecration: No longer causes unnecessary combat logging.
-  Horn of Winter: Learning rank 2 of this ability caused players to
   unlearn rank 1, such that it no longer appears in their spellbook.
   It is now possible to relearn that rank, and death knights will no
   longer “forget” rank 1 when they learn rank 2.
-  Lichborne: The buff from this ability can now be cancelled.
-  Raise Ally: Using the Gnaw ability while under the effects of this
   spell will now initiate auto-attack. In addition, the damage done
   has been changed from a flat value to a percentage of weapon damage.
-  Raise Dead: This spell will no longer give two errors when the
   casting player lacks the reagent to cast it.
-  Rune of Razorice: Each death knight can now have his or her own copy
   of this debuff on the target.
-  Rune of Spellbreaking: Tooltip now indicates the effect from this
   enchantment does not stack with other effects which reduce the
   duration of Silence effects (including not stacking with a second
   copy of this enchantment). In addition, now reduces damage from Holy
   spells.
-  Rune of Spellshattering: Now reduces damage from Holy spells.
-  Summon Gargoyle: Corrected the inaccurate tooltip which claimed a
   Gargoyle could last up to 40 seconds, when in fact 30 seconds has
   always been the maximum.
-  Rune of Razorice: Corrected a bug where this applied to frost damage
   done by others.
-  Druids
-  Bash: Tooltip now specifies that the Interrupt effect only occurs on
   non-player targets.
-  Bear Form, Cat Form, and Dire Bear Form: Mana energizes that occur
   while in these forms will now appear in the combat log and floating
   combat text.
-  Cyclone: Victims of Cyclone can no longer receive healing from
   health drain effects such as Devouring Plague while they are
   affected by Cyclone.
-  Dash: Druids who have not learned Track Humanoids will now retain
   the benefit of Dash while shifting out of and back into Cat Form.
-  Druids should no longer be removed from a form after using any
   engineered bombs.
-  Maim: Tooltip now specifies that the Interrupt effect only occurs on
   non-player targets.
-  Natural Perfection: Now properly triggered by periodic critical
   strikes.
-  Nature’s Grasp: This talent will no longer be triggered spuriously
   by some ranged abilities such as Heroic Throw.
-  Hunters
-  All ranks of Sonic Blast now properly have an 80 Focus cost.
-  Black Arrow Ranks 5 and 6 training costs have been lowered
   significantly.
-  Furious Howl: Ranks 1-5 will no longer give slightly more attack
   power than is listed in their tooltips.
-  Lock and Load: The tooltip for this talent has been updated to
   indicate that it also works with Explosive Trap.
-  Roar of Sacrifice: Damage transferred to pet is now considered
   Nature damage.
-  The tooltip for Improved Tracking has been slightly re-written to
   indicate that it only works on the hunter, and works on melee damage
   as well.
-  T.N.T. (Rank 3): Now indicates that the talent works with Black
   Arrow.
-  Mages
-  Arcane Instability: Tooltip reworded to clarify design intent.
-  Burning Determination: Some Silence and Interrupt effects that did
   not trigger this talent will now trigger it properly, including
   Shield of the Templar, Garrote and Gag Order.
-  Combustion: Fire spell misses will no longer trigger this talent.
-  Conjure Refreshment: Rank 1 food will no longer overwrite the drink
   buff from rank 2 food.
-  Fireball: Periodic damage from this spell can no longer trigger
   Combustion.
-  Living Bomb: Periodic critical strikes from this ability can now
   trigger Ignite and Hot Streak.
-  Mirror Image: The mirror images will no longer complete casts of
   Frostbolt on targets which are Polymorphed at the time their
   Frostbolt channel finishes.
-  Molten Armor: Critical strikes from the effect on this armor will
   no longer trigger Ignite.
-  Paladins
-  Auras: Any paladin aura active at the time of the paladin’s death
   now automatically reactivates when the paladin returns to life.
-  Beacon of Light: Multiple paladins can now have this buff active on
   the same target. In addition, the beacon target will no longer lose
   the buff while under the effects of Cyclone or Banish.
-  Blessing of Sanctuary: This talent and Vigilance will now both be
   able to be cast on the same target without sometimes overwriting
   each other.
-  Exorcism: Now properly has a 100% chance to be a critical strike
   when cast on death knights using Lichborne.
-  Eye for an Eye: Now properly triggered by periodic critical strikes.
   In addition, the tooltip incorrectly stated that 20% damage is
   reflected, when it is actually 10%. Tooltip fixed.
-  Hammer of Justice: Tooltip now specifies that the Interrupt effect
   only occurs on non-player targets.
-  Hand of Sacrifice: Casting this spell on a target with Divine
   Sacrifice active will now generate an error message instead of
   wasting the cooldown.
-  Heart of the Crusader: The effect from this talent will no longer be
   removed if a paladin without this talent overwrites the judgement
   placed by a paladin who does have the talent.
-  Holy Shield: It is no longer possible to have two ranks of this
   ability active at the same time.
-  Judgements: All paladin judgements are now properly considered as
   melee attacks that cannot be dodged, blocked or parried. Previously
   Seal of Light, Seal of Wisdom, Seal of Justice and Seal of
   Righteousness would cause the judgement to be considered a ranged attack.
-  Judgement of the Just: The effect from this talent will no longer be
   removed if a paladin without this talent overwrites the judgement
   placed by a paladin who does have the talent.
-  Judgement of Vengeance: Inaccurate combat log tooltip corrected.
-  Judgement of Corruption: Inaccurate combat log tooltip corrected.
-  Pursuit of Justice: This talent will no longer sometimes be
   deactivated when leaving a battleground.
-  Sacred Shield: This buff will no longer have any effect if the
   target is another player engaged in a duel. In addition, the heal
   from this buff will no longer cause the paladin to stand, and it is
   no longer possible for two paladins to both have the spell active on
   one target.
-  Priests
-  Blessed Resilience: Now properly triggered by periodic critical
   strikes.
-  Divine Aegis: This talent will now work properly if the priest moves
   out of range of his or her target as the effect is resolving.
-  Divine Hymn: This spell now works correctly with the trinket
   Illustration of the Dragon Soul. Mana Burn: Fixed a bug where Mana
   Burn did not cause fear effects to break when the fear victim had an
   absorb shield on.
-  Mass Dispel: This spell now triggers some types of trinkets it did
   not trigger before (such as Flow of Knowledge).
-  Pain Suppression: No longer can be cast while under the effects of
   Incapacitate or Cyclone.
-  Rogues
-  Honor Among Thieves: Periodic critical strikes now grant combo
   points for rogues with this talent.
-  Killing Spree: Error message when no targets are in range has been
   changed to “Out of Range”.
-  Master of Subtlety: Being under the effects of Cyclone when the buff
   from this talent is about to expire will no longer make it last
   indefinitely.
-  Overkill: Being under the effects of Cyclone when the buff from this
   talent is about to expire will no longer make it last indefinitely.
-  Shiv: Deadly Poison will now apply properly when Shiv is the attack
   used to break a Gouge.
-  Tricks of the Trade: Using this ability on a target affected by
   Cyclone or Banish will no longer place the ability on permanent
   cooldown and will instead give an error message.
-  Turn the Tables: Rank 2 of this talent will now work properly with
   raid members, and not just party members.
-  Shamans
-  Elemental Devastation: Tooltip revised to indicate it does not work
   with critical strikes from periodic damage.
-  Elemental Focus: Tooltip revised to indicate it does not work with
   critical strikes from periodic damage.
-  Elemental Oath: Tooltip revised to indicate it does not work with
   critical strikes from periodic damage.
-  Flametongue Weapon: Fixed tooltip error.
-  Frostbrand Weapon: Fixed a bug where rank 9 was not scaling properly
   with a shaman’s spell power.
-  Warlocks
-  Demonic Circle: The visual for this spell should now despawn when
   the warlock dies or when the warlock otherwise loses the aura that
   allows transport to the circle.
-  Immolate and Unstable Affliction: All ranks of these two spells will
   now overwrite each other.
-  Improved Imp: Each time an Imp is summoned it will recast Blood Pact
   (if autocast is on), forcing it to benefit from this talent, even if
   the Imp was not summoned at the time the talent was learned.
-  Improved Shadow Bolt: Redesigned slightly. Instead of a 100% chance
   to apply a 1/2/3/4/5% critical strike increase on the target, it now
   has a 20/40/60/80/100% chance to apply a 5% critical strike
   increase.
-  Warriors
-  Berserker Rage: Tooltip clarified to indicate this ability breaks
   existing Fear, Sap, and Incapacitate effects.
-  Bladestorm: Now properly removes the Snare effect of Desecration in
   all cases.
-  Blood Craze: Now properly triggered by periodic critical strikes.
-  Execute: Focused Rage and the Dreadnaught Battlegear set bonus will
   now properly reduce the cost of Execute.
-  Slam: The combat log tooltip will no longer list which rank of Slam
   was used. Previously it incorrectly listed rank 8 for all ranks of
   Slam.
-  Vigilance: This talent and Blessing of Sanctuary will now both be
   able to be cast on the same target without sometimes overwriting
   each other.
-  Items
-  Adamantite Scope: Attaching this scope to an item will now cause it
   to become soulbound as intended.
-  Badge of the Swarmguard: Will no longer cause a weapon swing
   animation when it triggers.
-  Cenarion Set: No longer reduces the (nonexistent) cooldown on
   Hurricane. Instead, the set bonus increases the damage done by
   Hurricane by 15%.
-  Commendation of Bravery: No longer useable when player is already at
   the maximum honor allowed.
-  Deadly Gladiator’s Dreadplate: The set bonus will now trigger
   properly from Crippling Poison.
-  Death Knight PvP Glove Bonus: The runic power gain no longer appears
   in the combat log.
-  Death Knight Tier-7 Set: Fingers of the Damned now has a detailed
   combat log tooltip.
-  Frostweave Net: Using this item no longer causes the user to break
   shapeshifts.
-  Glyphs
   Glyph of Beacon of Light: This glyph will no longer grant its
   duration increase twice when Beacon of Light is cast on self.
   Glyph of Corpse Explosion: This glyph will no longer cause the model
   on target dummies to change.
   Glyph of Death Strike: Tooltip typo corrected.
   Glyph of Disease: Blood Plague will now last its correct full
   duration when refreshed by this glyph.
   Glyph of Freezing Trap: The effect from this glyph will now log
   properly.
   Glyph of Healing Wave: The heal from this glyph will no longer
   benefit twice from the Purification talent.
   Glyph of Overpower: Fixed a bug where sometimes parries would not
   trigger the glyph. In addition, this glyph will now only make
   Overpower available for 6 seconds after a parry, instead of
   indefinitely.
   Glyph of Power Word: Shield: The heal from this glyph can now cause
   Divine Aegis.
   Glyph of Shadow: This glyph can now be triggered by critical strikes
   from periodic damage.
   Glyph of Shocking: Fixed tooltip error on Macintosh game client.
   Glyph of Shadowflame: The effect from this glyph will now work
   properly when multiple Warlocks use Shadowflame on the target.
-  Gnomish Mind Control Cap: Paladins who break the harmful effect from
   this item by using Divine Shield will now properly gain the
   Forbearance debuff.
-  Goblin Dragon Gun: This item will no longer spam the combat log with
   cast messages.
-  Heavy Netherweave Net: Using this item no longer causes the user to
   break shapeshifts.
-  Major Arcane Protection Potion: Vendor price lowered to match other
   similar potions.
-  Nightsong Battlegear: The 2-piece set bonus will no longer sometimes
   be triggered by other periodic damage other than those listed in the
   tooltip.
-  Pandora’s Plea: Corrected a tooltip issue.
-  Randomly generated uncommon (green) and rare (blue) quality items in
   Wrath of the Lich King had stat values that were lower than
   intended. All Wrath of the Lich King uncommon and rare items with
   random suffixes (“of the Bear”) have had their stat values increased
   significantly.
-  Reins of the Icemaw Matriarch: This vehicle will now leave bear
   footprints instead of barefoot footprints.
-  Reticulated Armor Webbing: Tooltip corrected to no longer claim that
   this item only works on plate items.
-  Saronite Bomb: This item will no longer cause threat against nearby
   targets just outside the targeting circle.
-  Scrolls: Scrolls which grant agility, intellect, spirit, strength,
   or stamina will now report an error message and no longer consume
   and waste the scroll when the target has a more powerful buff to
   that stat.
-  Sif’s Remembrance: Sound and animation added to trinket effect.
-  Sigil of Arthritic Binding: The bonus damage from this relic is now
   added after diseases have increased damage by a percentage, instead
   of before.
-  Trinkets: Various trinkets which did not work properly with
   channeled area-of-effect spells will now work with those spells.
   This includes (but is not limited to) Illustration of the Dragon
   Soul, Darkmoon Card: Greatness, and Egg of Mortal Essence.
-  Warrior PvP Glove Bonus: Tooltip reworded slightly.
-  Wintergrasp Commendation: No longer useable when player is already
   at the maximum honor allowed.
-  Professions
-  Enchant Weapon – Black Magic: This enchantment can now be triggered
   by some spells it did not previously work with, including Curse of
   Agony, Blizzard, and Typhoon.
-  Guardian Gloves: Now correctly marked as uncommon quality.
-  Events
-  Hallow’s End: Putting out fires for this event will no longer
   trigger effects from items, talents and set bonuses.
-  Noblegarden: Loot windows will no longer periodically close while
   the looting player is transformed into a rabbit.
-  Technical
-  There is a known UI rendering issue with the Intel 965 Mobile
   Express chipset drivers on Windows Vista prior to version
   7.15.10.1559 (December 2008). Please contact your laptop
   manufacturer for an updated driver if you are experiencing
   difficulties. In case of continued problems, add the following
   lines to the Config.wtf file as a workaround: SET fixedFunction "1".


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.1.3	(2009-06-02)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html

Death Knights

-  Frost Presence: Armor bonus is now 60% down from 80%.

Druids

-  Improved Barkskin: This talent now also grants 80/160% additional
   armor while in Travel Form or not shapeshifted.
-  Improved Tree of Life: The armor bonus to Tree of Life Form from
   this talent has been reduced to 67/133/200% bonus armor.

Hunters

-  Hunter's Mark: The ranged attack power bonus from this ability has
   been increased from 300 to 500.
-  Master Marksman: This talent now also decreases the cost of Aimed
   Shot and Chimera Shot by 5/10/15/20/25%.

Paladins

-  Eye For An Eye: This talent now deals 5/10% of the critical strike
   damage taken by the paladin back at the attacker.
-  Hand of Freedom: The base duration of this buff has been reduced
   from 10 seconds to 6 seconds.

Rogues

-  Overkill: Talent redesigned. Now increases energy regeneration by
   30% while stealthed, and for 20 seconds after breaking stealth.

Warlocks

-  Chaos Bolt: This spell no longer ignores damage reduction effects of
   the target.

Warriors

-  Blood Frenzy: This talent now provides 5/10% haste instead of 3/6%.
-  Bloodthirst: Cooldown reduced from 5 seconds to 4 seconds, and rage
   cost reduced from 30 rage to 20 rage.
-  Juggernaut: This talent now also increases the cooldown on Charge by
   5 seconds.

Items

-  Death Knight PvP Gauntlets: The chance to refresh a Frost Rune when
   casting Chains of Ice has been removed. When equipped, these gloves
   now generate 5 additional runic power whenever Chains of Ice is
   used.

Dungeons

-  Ulduar
-  Mimiron
   The flight time of Rocket Strikes has been increased, and Rocket
   Strikes will try to prefer players at range.
   The Leviathan Mk II component of the V-07-TR-0N will become stunned
   during Phase 4 when the VX-001 component begins to cast the P3Wx2
   Laser Barrage ability.
   Proximity mines now deal less damage and have a lower duration. A
   small arming time has also been added so proximity mines will not
   immediately detonate on creation.

Bug Fixes
	
-  Druid Tier 8 Balance Set: The 4-piece bonus no longer has its effect
   consumed by Starfire casts in progress when it triggers.  The chance
   for the effect to be triggered has been reduced down to 8%, as it
   was originally inflated to compensate.
-  Ice Layered Barrier: Upgraded to item level 232. In addition, the
   stats in the tooltip have been correctly adjusted to 78 spell power,
   48 haste rating, 16 mana per 5 seconds, 52 Intellect, and 50
   Stamina.
-  Pulsing Spellshield: The stats listed in the tooltip for this item
   were incorrect and have been adjusted. This item provides 69 spell
   power, 34 haste rating, 42 critical strike rating, 45 intellect, and
   45 stamina.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.1.2 (2009-05-19)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html

General

-  Equipment Manager
   When enabled from the Interface Options menu, this feature will
   allow players to store sets of equipment, easily swap between saved
   sets using hotkeys, and pull items directly from backpacks or bank
   slots (must be at the bank to equip inventory from the bank).
-  New art textures have been added for Argent Tournament mounts. Any
   mounts already purchased from the Argent Tournament vendors will be
   updated automatically. Argent Tournament mounts with the old
   textures will still be available for purchase from the Argent
   Tournament vendors for a small Champion’s Seal and gold cost
   (standard faction requirements apply).
   
PVP

-  Vehicle health and damage output in Strand of the Ancients and Lake
   Wintergrasp now scale with the item level of the operator’s gear.
   Power scaling is now 1% damage and 1% health per average item level.
-  All Lake Wintergrasp daily quests have been changed to a weekly
   format. The honor and Stone Keeper’s Shards rewarded for completing
   these quests have been increased to compensate.

Death Knights

-  Improved Death Strike: This talent now also increases the healing
   from Death Strike by 25/50% and the tooltip has been adjusted to
   reflect the actual functionality after the hotfix in 3.1.0.
-  Ghoul Frenzy: Now has a 10-second cooldown.

Hunters

-  Disengage: Cooldown reduced by 5 seconds.

Druids

-  Innervate: This ability has been redesigned to grant 450% of the
   casting Druid’s base mana pool to the target over 20 seconds.
-  Improved Moonkin Form: Now grants 10/20/30% of spirit as spell
   power.
   
Mages

-  Mirror Images: The images summoned by this spell will now target the
   creature that most hates the Mage, and should no longer cast Fire
   Blast or Frostbolt on targets that are affected by crowd control
   debuffs that break immediately on damage unless they are already
   casting these spells when crowd control is applied.

Paladins

-  Blessing of Wisdom and Greater Blessing of Wisdom: Now grant 92 mana
   per 5 seconds to prevent being overwritten by Mana Spring Totem.
-  Exorcism: Can no longer be used on player-controlled creatures.

Priests

-  Divine Hymn: Healing and healing scaling reduced by 30%. Buff on
   affected players changed from 15% to 10%.
-  Renewed Hope: Effect can no longer be dispelled.
-  Soul Warding: Mana cost reduction is now 15% down from 30%.

Warlocks

-  Conflagrate updated: Consumes an Immolate or Shadowflame effect on
   the enemy target to instantly deal damage equal to 12 seconds of
   your Immolate, or 8 seconds of your Shadowflame. In addition, the
   increased critical strike chance of Conflagrate provided by this
   talent no longer requires the Immolate effect to have 5 seconds or
   fewer remaining on the target.
-  Fire and Brimstone: Now increases the damage done by your Incinerate
   and Chaos Bolt by 3/6/9/12/15% on targets afflicted by Immolate, and
   increases the critical strike chance of your Conflagrate by
   5/10/15/20/25%.
-  Nether Protection reduced to 30% damage reduction, down from 60%.
-  Sacrifice (Voidwalker) redesigned: Sacrifices a portion of the
   Voidwalker's health, giving its master a shield that will absorb X
   damage for 30 seconds. While the shield holds, spell casting will
   not be interrupted by damage. 1-minute cooldown.
-  Shadow and Flame: Now also includes Shadowburn.

Warriors

-  Juggernaut: Critical strike chance bonus reduced to 25%, down from
   100%.

Items

-  Arena weapons with an item level of 239 have had their rating
   requirements increased to 2350.
-  Darkruned Battlegear 2-Piece Set Bonus: The bonus critical strike
   chance for Frost Strike and Death Coil has been increased from 5% to
   8%.
-  Furious Gladiator’s Staff and Furious Gladiator’s Greatstaff: The
   agility values on these two items were too high. They have been
   reduced by 50%.
-  Glyphs
   Glyph of Innervate: Has been adjusted to grant the Druid 90% of his
   or her base mana pool over 20 seconds.
   Glyph of Mass Dispel: Now only decreases Mass Dispel cost by 35%.
   Glyph of Rapid Charge: Reduced to 7%, down from 20% cooldown
   reduction to Charge.
-  Guise of the Midgard Serpent: The base attack power on this item has
   been lowered to balance it against items of a similar quality.
-  Increased the health and mana restored from Northrend food and
   drinks.
-  Most scopes now have a level requirement and will bind the item to
   which they are applied.
-  Nightsong Garb 4-Piece Set Bonus: Chance for Insect Swarm to trigger
   an instant Starfire changed to 15%.
-  Scourgeborne Battlegear 4-Piece Set Bonus: The runic power gain has
   been reduced to 5 runic power from 10 runic power.
-  Ulduar 10-player hard mode weapons have been updated to item level
   232.

Professions

-  Fishing
   Jewel of the Sewers: You can now fish in all parts of the Dalaran
   sewers for this quest.
   Phantom Ghostfish: Can now be caught from Nettlefish schools in
   Sholazar Basin.

Bug Fixes

-  Death Knights
   Anti-magic Shell: Tooltip error corrected.   
   Blood Boil: If no target is available for Blood Boil to hit, the
   spell will now cast and consume a blood rune but generate no runic
   power.
-  Druids
   Maim: Rank 2 of this ability is properly considered a stun and can
   be escaped by Blink.
-  Hunters
   Go For The Throat: Explosive Shot critical strikes now trigger this
   talent.
   Lock and Load: The tooltip has been corrected to display its actual
   chance to occur.
   Rabid: This Hunter pet talent no longer lists a percentage chance to
   be triggered, as that chance varies by the attack speed of the pet.
-  Paladins
   Divine Sacrifice: Damage done to the Paladin while this is active
   will no longer cause the effect to break early, and if it is
   dispelled or cancelled early, the damage counter will reset
   correctly the next time the spell is cast.
-  Rogues
   Shadow Dance: Issues with action bars and ability use arising from
   using Stealth while Shadow Dance is active have been fixed.
-  Tricks of the Trade: To prevent exploits, this ability can no longer
   be cast on non-player targets.
-  Warlocks
   Demonic Sacrifice: This spell will no longer appear in any Warlock’s
   spellbook.
-  Professions
   Tailoring
   Swordguard Embroidery: Now correctly increases ranged attack power.
-  Dungeons and Raids
   Ulduar
   Hodir should now reset in a timely manner if a group fails to kill
   him.
   10-player bosses that drop Runed Orbs will also sometimes drop the
   recipes that use those orbs.
   The Spark of Imagination: Characters that release in part of the
   boss room will no longer be ported to Westfall or The Barrens.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.1.1	(2009-04-21)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We are updating World of Warcraft with a  minor bug fix patch. For updated 
information regarding the changes made in this patch, please visit the official 
General forum at: 
http://forums.wow-europe.com/board.html?forumId=10001&sid=1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.1.0	(2009-04-14)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html


Secrets of Ulduar
-  Since discovering Ulduar in the Storm Peaks, adventurers have
   journeyed to the titan city to learn more about its mysterious past.
   Further exploration has revealed that the magnificent complex is
   above all a prison, intended to permanently confine the Old God of
   death, Yogg-Saron. This ancient horror has corrupted its guards, and
   now it is breaking through the last of its restraints. Faced with
   the peril of Yogg-Saron's imminent freedom, a band of mortals has
   made preparations for a sweeping assault on the city. Overcoming the
   legions of iron minions and towering defenses at the city's entrance
   will take tremendous strength, but even that great victory may not
   be enough to overcome the madness that dwells below.

The Argent Tournament Begins!
-  As the might of the Scourge wanes under the pressure of Azeroth’s
   heroes, the Argent Crusade have taken a foothold in Arthas’s back
   yard. Off the northeastern coast of Icecrown, the Argent Crusade
   have sounded the call for the most bold and brave adventurers of the
   Horde and Alliance to take part in the Argent Tournament.
   Representatives of all ten faction capitols, from Undercity to
   Exodar, have traveled to the tournament grounds to find champions
   among their heroes who will prepare for the inevitable battle
   against the enemy of all living beings, the Lich King.

General 
-  Due to significant talent tree revisions, all players will have
   their talent points reimbursed. Several new spells and abilities
   have been added for select classes.  Players will need to visit
   their class trainer to learn new spells.
-  The Argent Tournament, a permanent in-game event, has come to
   Icecrown. Players interested in taking part in this event should
   visit the Argent Pavilion located on the west side of the tournament
   grounds. Features include:
   New ways of gaining reputation with capitol cities.
   All new daily quests, achievements and titles.
   New rare and epic items, tabards, pets, banners, faction shirts and
   mounts.
   Mounted combat, and much more to come!
-  All Ground Mounts may now swim without dismounting the rider. Flying
   Mounts still may NOT, and will dismount the rider upon entering 
   water.
-  Players level 40 and higher will now be able to visit their trainer
   to pay a one-time fee and access the dual talent specialization
   feature.
-  The achievement Brew of the Year has been removed from the 
   Brewmaster meta-achievement. The achievement Brew of the Month has
   been added in its place.
-  Noblegarden has been redesigned into a week-long holiday with new
   items, quests, and more. Various achievements have been added,
   including the meta-achievement Noble Gardener, which is now required
   for the meta-achievement What A Long, Strange Trip It's Been.
-  Applying a glyph no longer requires a Lexicon of Power. The same
   rules for switching between dual talent specializations now apply to
   switching glyphs and cannot be performed while in combat,
   Battlegrounds (except when Preparation is up), or Arenas
   (no exceptions).

PvP
-  Arenas
   Enemy Unit Frames: This feature is only available while in Arenas,
   with several options in the Interface Options.
-  Battlegrounds
   Battleground quests “Concerted Efforts” (Alliance) and “For Great
   Honor” (Horde) now require an Alterac Valley Mark of Honor in
   addition to the current requirements. These quests now award more
   honor upon completion.
   Players will now be able to queue for battlegrounds from any 
   location. Leaving the battleground will return you to the
   location from which you entered.
   Seaforium Barrels can now be looted while mounted, seen from 
   anywhere in the zone, and found at the Central Graveyard.
   Teleporters can now be used while mounted and can now be seen from 
   anywhere in the zone.
   Alterac Valley
   Drek’Thar, Vanndar Stormpike, the tower Heralds and Warmasters have
   received a hit point and damage upgrade in the level 80 version of
   Alterac Valley.
   Strand of the Ancients
   Capturing the Southern Graveyard will now automatically capture both
   the East and West Graveyards.
-  Lake Wintergrasp
   All players who attack a siege vehicle should now get credit if it
   is destroyed.
   Daily quests “Slay Them All!” (Horde) and “No Mercy for the
   Merciless” (Alliance) have had their PvP kill requirements reduced
   to 10 from 20. NPCs defending the fortress and south towers now
   count toward these dailies as well.
   The number of NPCs defending fortress has been increased.
   Siege Engines now have Steam Pressure as a resource type (replaces
   energy).
   Siege Engines now have the Steam Rush ability from Ulduar.
   The southern Siege Factories can be captured.
   The time between battles will be saved should a realm shut down. If
   Wintergrasp is active when a realm shuts down, the game will restart
   from the beginning when the realm is once again live.
   Towers in Southern Wintergrasp now have more defensive cannons.

Races: General
-  Command (Orc Racial): Applies to shaman pets, and now correctly
   applies to death knight pets.
-  Gift of the Naaru (Draenei Racial): The heal has been changed to an
   instant-cast heal-over-time.
-  Stoneform (Dwarf Racial): No longer makes you immune to poison,
   disease and bleed effects for 8 seconds. Instead, using Stoneform
   will clear those effects when cast. Cooldown reduced to 2 minutes
   from 3 minutes.

Classes: General
-  Armor Penetration Rating: All classes now receive 25% more benefit
   from Armor Penetration Rating.
-  The damage threshold for Fear, Psychic Scream, Hex, Intimidating
   Shout, and Turn Evil to break early has been significantly reduced.
-  Haste Rating: shamans, paladins, druids, and death knights now
   receive 30% more melee haste from Haste Rating.
-  Hysteria, Tricks of the Trade, Enrage, Wrecking Crew, Death Wish, 
   Arcane Power, Owlkin Frenzy, Beast Within, and Avenging Wrath damage
   bonuses no longer stack together.
-  Mana Regeneration: The amount of mana regeneration derived from
   intellect and spirit has been reduced by 40%; however, talents that
   allow for mana regeneration while in combat have been increased. As
   a result, in-combat regeneration for classes with those talents will
   stay the same, while out-of-combat regeneration will be lower.
-  The shaman’s Fire Elemental and Spirit Wolves, mage’s Water
   Elemental and Mirror Images, and druid’s Treants have all gained
   avoidance from area-of-effect damage similar to what warlock and
   hunter pets already have.
-  Taunts: All player or pet-generated taunts now have a shared
   diminish category. In addition, Taunt-type effects from pets and
   from classes other than death knight, druid, paladin, and warrior
   have been set such that bosses can be made immune to them while
   still affected by death knight, druid, paladin, and warrior taunts.

Death Knights
-  Anti-magic Shell: The amount of damage this ability can absorb is
   now limited to 100% of the death knight’s health.
-  Blood Boil’s damage increased to make up for Pestilence no longer 
   doing damage. 
-  Blood Boil now does some damage to undiseased targets and extra 
   damage to diseased targets. Its radius has been decreased.
-  Blood Plague: Now lasts 15 seconds untalented.
-  Blood Strike: Bonus damage for diseases is now a multiplier rather
   than a flat bonus.
-  Death Pact: This heal cannot be critical.
-  Death Strike: The amount of healing per damage done has been reduced
   by 20%.
-  Frost Fever: Now lasts 15 seconds untalented.
-  Frost Presence: Now grants 5% damage reduction instead of 15% magic
   damage reduction.
-  Obliterate: Bonus damage for diseases now increases damage done by a
   percentage rather than a flat amount.
-  Pestilence does no damage and has only 1 rank. 
-  Plague Strike and Blood Plague no longer remove heal-over-time 
   effects. Plague Strike’s damage increased quite a bit to compensate.
-  Raise Ally now has a cooldown greater than 15 minutes and can no
   longer be used in Arenas. 
-  Raise Dead: Duration lowered to 60 seconds and cooldown lowered to
   3 minutes.
   The cooldown on this ability now begins when the pet dies rather 
   than when it is summoned.
-  Rune of Cinderglacier now procs per minute instead of a 5% chance.
-  Rune of the Fallen Crusader: This weapon enchant now provides only
   15% strength, but its chance to proc is doubled.
-  Rune of Razorice now affects Frost damage done by the death knight
   only, but stacks up to 10%. 
-  Strangulate no longer does damage and has been reduced to 1 rank. 
-  Talents
   Blood
   Abomination’s Might: This effect can now also be caused by Death
   Strike.
   Blade Barrier: Now grants 1/2/3/4/5% damage reduction instead of
   2/4/6/8/10% parry.
   Blood Aura: Replaced with Improved Blood Presence.  This allows the
   death knight to keep the healing-from-damage-done bonus of Blood
   Presence in any presence, and increases healing received while in 
   Blood Presence.
   Blood-Gorged now grants armor penetration instead of expertise.
   Bloody Strikes: The bonus damage this talent grants to Blood Boil
   has been reduced to 10/20/30%.
   Bloodworms now heal more.
   Dancing Rune Weapon: Damage done by, and duration of this pet is
   reduced by 50%, but the cooldown is reduced to 90 seconds. Attack
   speed of pet increased from 2.0 to 3.5.
   New talent: Improved Death Strike: Increases Death Strike damage by
   10/20%, and critical strike chance by 3/6%.
   Heart Strike: Bonus damage for diseases is now a multiplier rather
   than a flat bonus. No longer affected by Glyph of Blood Strike.
   Hysteria: This ability now causes the target to lose health rather
   than take damage.
   Might of Mograine: No longer affects Obliterate.
   Scent of Blood: Will now proc on a dodge, parry or when taking
   damage, and now grants 10 runic power per charge. Internal cooldown
   removed.
   Spell Deflection: This talent has been increased to 15/30/45% damage
   reduction from a direct damage spell.
   Sudden Doom now procs a free Death Coil instead of requiring you to 
   push the button. Ranks reduced from 5 to 3.
   Vampiric Blood: Cooldown increased to 2 minutes from 1 minute.
   Will of the Necropolis: This ability now has a 15 second cooldown on
   how often it can occur.
   Frost 
   The following talents have moved in the Frost tree: Runic Power 
   Mastery, Glacier Rot, Killing Machine, Chilblains, and Endless 
   Winter.
   Black Ice: This talent now provides a 2/4/6/8/10% bonus to Frost and
   Shadow damage instead of 4/8/12/16/20% to Frost.
   Blood of the North now also increases damage dealt by Frost Strike
   by 3/6/9/12/15%.
   Chillblains: Now a 15/30/50% movement speed debuff up from 30%. Can
   no longer be dispelled.
   Frost Aura: Replaced with Improved Frost Presence.  Allows the 
   deathknight to keep the health bonus of Frost Presence in any 
   presence, and decreases damage taken while in Frost Presence.
   Glacier Rot: 3rd rank added, and damage bonus increased to
   7/13/20%.
   Howling Blast: Base damage and scaling doubled.  This ability no
   longer deals bonus damage to targets with Frost Fever. 8-second
   cooldown. Swapped positions with Hungering Cold in the talent tree.
   Icy Talons and Improved Icy Talons: These talents now have new
   icons.
   Improved Icy Touch: Now increases Icy Touch damage by 5/10/15%
   instead of by 10/20/30%.
   Lichborne: No longer improves your chance to be missed. Now
   correctly grants immunity, and will break all effects to which
   Lichborne makes you immune.
   Rime: When this talent triggers, it also resets the cooldown on
   Howling Blast.
   Runic Power Mastery: Moved up to tier-1 and reduced to 2 ranks
   (15/30%).
   Tundra Stalker: Now increases the damage on abilities by
   3/6/9/12/15% instead of 2/4/6/8/10%.
   Unbreakable Armor: Now grants damage reduction instead of physical
   damage reduction. Cooldown increased to 2 minutes from 1 minute.
   Unholy
   Bone Shield: Cooldown increased to 2 minutes from 1 minute.
   Desecration: This talent now has a 100% chance to be triggered,
   works with Scourge Strike, and instantly snares targets within the
   Desecration area.  Additional points in the talent increase the
   damage bonus and snare magnitude instead of increasing the chance
   it will be triggered.
   New Talent: Ghoul Frenzy: Grants 25% melee haste to your pet and
   heals it for 30% of its maximum health. Costs 1 Unholy Rune.
   Requires at least 30 points in the Unholy tree.
   Impurity: This talent is reduced to 4/8/12/16/20% bonus to attack
   power scaling.
   Magic Suppression: Now has 3 ranks (down from 5) for 2/4/6% magic
   damage reduction.
   Master of Ghouls: Now also reduces the cooldown on Raise Dead by 60
   seconds. This talent now requires at least 25 points in the Unholy
   tree, and has Night of the Dead as a prerequisite.
   Night of the Dead: Redesigned to grant a flat reduction on cooldown
   to Raise Dead and Army of the Dead instead of a reduction from using
   abilities. Requires at least 15 points in the Unholy tree;
   prerequisite for Master of Ghouls.
   Outbreak: No longer increases Blood Boil damage. Now gives a
   7/13/20% damage bonus to Scourge Strike. Plague Strike Bonus lowered
   to 10/20/30%.
   Reaping: Now procs on Blood Strike and Pestilence instead of Blood
   Strike and Blood Boil.
   Scourge Strike: Damage increased. Bonus damage for diseases now
   increases damage done by a percentage rather than a flat amount.
   Shadow of Death: This talent has been removed.
   Unholy Aura: Replaced with Improved Unholy Presence.  Allows the 
   death knight to keep the movement speed bonus of Unholy Presence in
   any presence, and increases rune regeneration rate while in Unholy 
   Presence.
   Unholy Blight and Gargoyle have swapped places in the Unholy tree. 
   Gargoyle is the new 51-point Unholy talent.
   Vicious Strikes: This talent no longer affects Death Strike.

Druids 
-  Abolish Poison: Now ticks every 3 seconds, up from every 2. Now
   lasts 12 seconds, up from 8.
-  Faerie Fire and Faerie Fire (Feral): Now decreases armor of your target by 5%. Has a 5-minute duration,
   and a 40-second PvP duration.
-  Feral Faerie Fire: The damage generated by this ability in Bear Form
   and Dire Bear Form has been increased substantially.
-  Innervate: This spell no longer costs mana.
-  Lifebloom: Mana cost of all ranks doubled.  When Lifebloom blooms or
   is dispelled, it now refunds half the base mana cost of the spell
   per application of Lifebloom, and the heal effect is multiplied by
   the number of applications.
-  Maim: This ability is now considered a stun, and shares a diminish 
   category with all other stuns.  It no longer has a chance to break
   from the target taking damage. Duration lowered to 1 second per
   combo point.
-  Pounce: No longer affected by diminishing returns with other stuns,
   however, it now shares a diminishing return with Cheap Shot (Rogue).
-  Savage Defense: Trainable at level 40 with Dire Bear Form as a
   prerequisite. When the druid deals a melee critical strike, it gains
   a physical damage shield equal to 25% of its attack power. The next
   hit completely consumes the shield, regardless of how much damage
   was done. Only active in Bear Form.
-  Starfall: Cooldown reduced to 90 seconds.
-  Swipe: The Bear Form and Dire Bear Form version of this ability no
   longer has a targeting requirement and hits targets behind the druid
   and to the sides.
-  Talents
   Balance
   Celestial Focus re-designed: Reduces the pushback suffered from
   damaging attacks while casting Starfire, Hibernate and Hurricane by
   23/46/70% and increases your total spell haste by 1/2/3%.
   Eclipse: The benefit to Wrath triggered by casting Starfire has been
   increased to 30% bonus damage.
   Insect Swarm: The bonus damage from spellpower on this damage over
   time ability has been increased significantly to match similar
   spells on other classes.
   Mark of the Wild and Gift of the Wild can now be cast while in
   Moonkin form.
   Moonkin Form: Mana cost reduced.
   Nature's Grace redesigned: All spell critical strikes have a
   33/66/100% chance to grace you with a Blessing of Nature, increasing
   your spell casting speed by 20% for 3 seconds.
   Owlkin Frenzy is now properly considered an Enrage effect. Now also
   does not trigger from spell hits, only physical ranged and melee 
   attacks.
   Typhoon: Now causes a 3-second daze.
   Feral
   Heart of the Wild: Stamina bonus changed to 2/4/6/8/10%.
   Predatory Strikes: This talent no longer works when in Moonkin form.
   New Talent: Primal Gore: Grants the periodic damage from your
   Lacerate and Rip abilities the chance to critically hit.
   Primal Tenacity: The damage reduction while stunned effect now only
   works in Cat Form.
   Rend and Tear: The critical strike bonus for Ferocious Bite reduced
   to 5/10/15/20/25%, down from 10/20/30/40/50%.
   Savage Roar is now considered an Enrage effect and now increases
   physical damage done by 30% instead of increasing attack power.
   Survival of the Fittest: Bonus armor reduced to 11/22/33% instead of
   22/44/66%.
   Restoration
   Living Seed: This talent now accounts for total healing including 
   overhealing.
   Improved Mark of the Wild:  Now also increases all of your total 
   attributes by 1/2%.
   Intensity: Now grants 17/33/50% of mana regeneration while casting.
   New Talent: Improved Barkskin: Increases the damage reduction 
   granted by your Barkskin spell by 5/10%, and increases your 
   resistance to Dispel mechanics by an additional 30/60% while under
   the effect of Barkskin.
   Improved Regrowth: This talent is renamed Nature’s Bounty. Increases
   the critical effect chance of your Regrowth and Nourish spells by
   5/10/15/20/25%.
   Replenish: This talent is now re-named Revitalize and also works
   with Wild Growth.
   Tree of Life: Now receives 240% increased armor. You can now use
   Nature's Grasp and Thorns while within this form. In addition, the
   discount on heal-over-time spells from this talent is now active at
   all times, whether or not the druid is in Tree of Life form. Mana
   cost reduced to match the cost of Travel Form.
   
Hunters
-  Ammunition: All types of gun and bow ammunition now stack to 1000.
   All quivers and ammo pouches no longer provide haste.  15% ranged
   haste is now built into the hunter's Auto Shot.
-  Aspect of the Pack is now raid wide, and radius increased from 30
   yards to 40 yards.
-  Call Stabled Pet: This new ability lets the hunter remotely access
   the stable. 30-minute cooldown.
-  Cunning, Ferocity and Tenacity pets now all have +5% damage, +5%
   armor and +5% health bonuses. This should make more pet families
   feel viable, while additional talents have been added to distinguish
   a pet’s abilities based on its specializations.
-  Disengage: Cooldown increased by 5 seconds.
-  Frost Trap: If the target who triggers Frost Trap is immune to its 
   effect, the Frost Trap area effect will no longer be triggered. Now
   reduces speed by 50% (previously 60%).
-  Pets now inherit more spell hit from the hunter. Pets with magic
   attacks should not require a player to stack additional hit compared
   to pets with physical attacks.
-  Viper Sting redesigned: Stings the target, draining 4% of mana over
   8 seconds (up to a maximum of 8% of the caster's maximum mana), and
   energizing the hunter equal to 300% of the amount drained. Only one
   Sting per hunter can be active on any one target.
-  Talents
   Beast Mastery
   Animal Handler: No longer reduces the cooldown of Master's Call, but
   instead increases the duration of the Master's Call effect by 3/6
   seconds.
   Improved Aspect of the Hawk now has a new spell effect.
   Marksmanship
   Chimera Shot: Mana cost reduced from 16% to 12%.
   Concussive Barrage redesigned: 2-point talent. Now causes your
   Multi-Shot and Chimera Shot to have a 50/100% chance to daze the
   target for 4 seconds.
   Efficiency: Increased to 3/6/9/12/15% up from 2/4/6/8/10%.
   Piercing Shots redesigned: Your critical Aimed, Steady and Chimera
   Shots cause the target to bleed for 10/20/30% of the damage dealt 
   over 8 seconds. The damage done by this talent no longer receives
   modifications from effects that increase or decrease damage done by
   a percentage.
   Ranged Weapon Specialization: Points reduced from 5 to 3, 1/3/5%.
   Rapid Recuperation redesigned: You gain 2/4% of your mana every 3
   seconds while under the effect of Rapid Fire, and you gain 1/2% of
   your mana every 2 seconds for 6 seconds when you gain Rapid Killing.
   Silencing Shot: No longer on the global cooldown.
   Wild Quiver: Chance increased to 4/8/12%, up from 4/7/10%. Damage 
   increased from 50% of an Auto Shot to 80%.
   Survival
   Entrapment redesigned: When your Frost Trap, Immolation Trap,
   Explosive Trap and Snake Trap are triggered, you entrap all
   afflicted targets, preventing them from moving for 2/3/4 seconds.
   Explosive Shot: Base damage lowered by 10%.  Attack power scaling
   reduced by 12.5%. The periodic damage from this ability no longer
   triggers Judgement of Wisdom and Judgement of Light.
   Hunting Party: This talent has been reduced to 3 points, and now 
   increases your total agility by an additional 1/2/3%.
   Lock and Load redesigned: You now have a 33/66/100% chance when you
   trap a target with Freezing Trap, Freezing Arrow or Frost Trap and a 
   2/4/6% chance when you deal periodic damage with your Immolation 
   Trap or Black Arrow to cause your next 2 Arcane Shot or Explosive 
   Shot spells to trigger no cooldown, cost no mana and consume no 
   ammo. This now has a new spell effect and sound.
   New Talent: Black Arrow: Fires a Black Arrow at the target,
   increasing all damage done by you to the target by 6% and doing
   periodic shadow damage for 15 seconds. 30-second cooldown. Shares a
   cooldown with all other traps.
   T.N.T.: Increases damage done by Explosive Shot, Immolation Trap,
   and Explosive Trap by 2/4/6%.
   Trap Mastery: This talent has been moved to tier-2, up from 
   tier-9, and is now a 3-point talent.
   Trap Mastery, Resourcefulness and T.N.T. now all affect Black Arrow.
   Improved Wing Clip: This talent has been removed.
   Wyvern Sting: Duration increased from 12 seconds to 30 seconds. PvP
   duration reduced from 10 seconds to 6 seconds.
   Pets
   Bullheaded now adds 20% damage reduction for 12 seconds along with
   its current CC-removal effect.
   Cornered: The critical strike reduction when this ability is active
   has been increased.
   Feeding Frenzy increased to 8/16% damage up from 6/12%.
   Furious Howl (wolf special ability) now stacks with Battle Shout and
   Blessing of Might, however, it only affects the wolf and hunter. Its
   effect and cooldown have been doubled so that it provides the same
   benefit but isn’t up 100% of the time.
   Gorillas now have a new family ability, Pummel, which works like the
   warrior ability and has a single rank.
   Grace of the Mantis and Roar of Sacrifice are now also available to
   Cunning pets.
   Great Resistance increased to 5/10/15% magic damage reduction, up
   from 3/6/9%.
   Roar of Recovery cooldown decreased to 3 minutes, down from 6
   minutes.
   Roar of Sacrifice can be used on the hunter only.
   New Talent: Shark Attack: This new 2-rank talent is available to
   Ferocity pets. It increases pet damage.
   New Talent: Silverback: This new 2-rank talent is available to
   Tenacity pets. It heals the pet when Growl is used.
   Stampede (rhino) only affects 1 target, but adds a 25% bleed damage
   debuff (that does not stack with Mangle etc.) in addition to its 
   knockback.
   Thunderstomp is no longer a gorilla-specific family ability and is
   now available to all Tenacity pets. It has been reduced to one rank.
   Turtles and Crabs now dwell in waters of and off Eversong and the
   Ghostlands, giving Blood Elf hunters access to local Tenacity pets.
   New Talent: Wild Hunt: This new 2-rank talent is available to all
   3 pet trees. Increases the contribution your pets get from your
   stamina by 20/40% and attack power by 10/20%.

Mages 
-  Arcane Blast stacking effect is no longer considered a Magic effect 
   and will not be dispelled.
-  Mage Armor: Now grants 50% of mana regeneration while casting.
-  Mirror Image: The images no longer cast Polymorph.
-  Molten Armor: Chance to critically strike is now increased by a
   percentage of the mage’s total spirit.
-  Talents
   Arcane
   Arcane Meditation: Now grants 17/33/50% of mana regeneration while
   casting.
   Fire
   Ignite: The damage done by this talent no longer receives
   modifications from effects that increase or decrease damage done by
   a percentage.
   Improved Scorch: Increased critical strike chance is now 1%, down
   from 2% per application of the Improved Scorch effect. In addition,
   the critical strike chance of Scorch, Fireball, and Frostfire Bolt
   is increased by 1/2/3%.
   Pyromaniac: Now grants 17/33/50% of mana regeneration while casting.
   Frost
   Improved Water Elemental: Renamed Enduring Winter.  Instead of the
   Water Elemental increasing mana regeneration for the mage’s party, 
   casting Frostbolt now has a 33/66/100% chance to provide the 
   Replenishment buff to up to 10 people in the mage’s party or raid.
   Winter’s Chill: Increased critical strike chance is now 1%, down
   from 2% per application of Winter’s Chill. In addition, the critical
   strike chance of Frostbolt is increased by 1/2/3%.

Paladins 
-  Auras will now persist through death and affect a 40 yard radius.
-  Blessing of Kings is now trainable at level 20.  Removed from talent
   trees.
-  Divine Plea can once again be dispelled.
-  Exorcism: Now can be used on any target and has a 100% chance to be
   a critical strike when used on Undead and Demons.
-  Hand of Sacrifice: The damage transferred by this ability is now
   capped by the paladin’s health.
-  Forbearance reduced to a 2-minute duration.
-  Sacred Shield: This effect cannot be cast on more than one friendly
   target at a time.
-  Seal of Blood/Seal of the Martyr: The damage done by these two seals
   has been increased but the damage done by their judgements
   decreased. The balance is now roughly 60% from either seal and 40%
   from a judgement on total damage done. The total damage done should
   be roughly the same.  Please note that the 3.0.9 tooltips had
   incorrect values for the damage done, but the tooltips should be
   much more accurate in 3.1.0.
-  Shield of Righteousness: Base damage and scaling factor increased by
   30%.
-  Spiritual Attunement: Removed from trainers.  It is now available
   deep in the Protection tree for 2 ranks at 5/10%.
-  Talents
   Holy
   Aura Mastery: Now grants anyone affected by Concentration Aura
   immunity from Interrupt and Silence mechanics, and increases the
   effectiveness of all other auras by 100%. Lasts 10 seconds. 2-minute
   cooldown.
   Blessed Hands: Now reduces mana cost of Hand of Freedom, Sacrifice
   and Salvation by 15/30%, and improves the effectiveness of Hand of
   Salvation by 50/100% and Hand of Sacrifice by an additional 5/10%.
   Moved to tier-4.
   Enlightened Judgements: No longer increases the range of Judgement
   of Justice. Moved to tier-10.
   Improved Concentration Aura: The resistance to Silence and Interrupt
   mechanics granted by this talent now becomes active when any Aura is
   used, not just Concentration Aura.
   Infusion of Light: Now increases the critical chance of your next
   Holy Light by 10/20% instead of reducing cast time. Moved to
   tier-10.
   Judgements of the Pure moved to tier-9.
   Pure of Heart: Now reduces duration of all curse, disease, and
   poison effects by 15/30%.
   Purifying Power: Now reduces the cooldowns of Exorcism and Holy
   Wrath by 17/33% instead of increasing critical strike chance.
   Sacred Cleansing moved to tier-8.
   Protection
   Ardent Defender: Reduced to 3 ranks for 10/20/30%.
   Avenger’s Shield: Base damage and scaling factor increased by 30%.
   Blessing of Sanctuary: Now only grants mana on dodge/parry/block.
   In addition, will only grant mana if that is the active power type
   of the friendly target (Bears and Cats won’t gain mana).
   Improved Devotion Aura: The additional healing granted by this
   talent now becomes active when any Aura is used, not just Devotion
   Aura.
   Divine Guardian: Now increases the effectiveness of Divine Sacrifice
   by an additional 5/10%, and increases the duration of Sacred Shield
   by 50/100% and the amount absorbed by 10/20%.
   Divine Protection: Cooldown reduced to 3 minutes.
   New Talent: Divine Sacrifice: Causes all party/raid members affected
   by one of the paladin’s auras to transfer 30% of all damage taken to
   the paladin (maximum of 150% of the paladin’s max health). Lasts 10
   seconds. 2-minute cooldown.
   New Talent: Divinity: Increases healing done by and to you
   by 1/2/3/4/5% (tier-1).
   Guarded by the Light: Now makes Divine Plea 50/100% less likely to 
   be dispelled.
   Improved Hammer of Justice: Reduced to 2 ranks for 10/20-second
   cooldown reduction.
   Holy Shield: Base damage and scaling factor increased by 30%.
   Sacred Duty rank 1 now increases stamina by 4%.
   Judgements of the Just: Now also reduces the cooldown of Hammer of
   Justice by 10/20 seconds, and increases the duration of the Seal of
   Justice stun effect by .5/1 second.
   One-Handed Weapon Specialization: Reduced to 3 ranks for 4/7/10%.
   Shield of the Templar: No longer increases the damage done by Holy
   Shield, Avenger’s Shield, and Shield of Righteousness.  Now grants
   33/66/100% chance to silence your Avenger’s Shield targets for 3
   seconds.
   Retribution
   Benediction now affects Hand of Reckoning.
   Divine Purpose: Moved to Improved Retribution Aura’s position.
   Divine Storm: Damage increased.
   Fanaticism reduced to 3 ranks for 6/12/18% bonus and 10/20/30% 
   threat reduction.
   Judgement of the Wise: The immediate return of base mana from this
   spell has been increased to 25%, up from 15%.
   Repentance no longer resets the paladin's melee swing timer.
   Improved Retribution Aura: This talent has been removed.
   Righteous Vengeance reduced to 3 ranks for 10/20/30%. The damage
   done by this talent no longer receives modifications from effects
   that increase or decrease damage done by a percentage. Now triggered
   by Crusader Strike as well.
   Sanctified Retribution: The bonus to damage done granted by this
   talent now becomes active when any Aura is used, not just
   Retribution Aura.
   Sanctified Seals: Renamed Sanctity of Battle. Now also increases
   damage done by Exorcism and Crusader Strike by 5/10/15%.
   Swift Retribution: Now grants its haste bonus while any aura is
   active.

Priests 
-  Abolish Disease: Now cleanses a disease every 3 seconds, down from
   5. Duration reduced from 20 seconds down to 12 seconds.
-  Devouring Plague: This spell now has a new icon.
-  Divine Hymn redesigned: You recite a Holy hymn, summoning the power
   of the Divine to assist you in your time of need. Heals 3 nearby
   lowest-health friendly party or raid targets for 4960-5208 every 2
   seconds for 8 seconds, and increases healing done to them by 15% for
   8 seconds. Maximum of 12 heals. The Priest must channel to maintain
   the spell. Cooldown increased to 6 minutes, up from 5.
-  Divine Spirit is now trainable at level 31.
-  Holy Nova: Mana cost reduced approximately 20%.
-  Improved Holy Concentration removed.
-  Hymn of Hope redesigned: You recite a Holy hymn, restoring hope to
   those in despair. Restores 3% mana to 3 nearby low mana friendly
   party or raid targets every 2 seconds for 8 seconds, and temporarily
   increases their total maximum mana by 20% for 8 seconds. After the
   effect expires, the mana is lost. Maximum of 12 mana restorations.
   The Priest must channel to maintain the spell. Cooldown increased to
   6 minutes, up from 5.
-  Mental Agility, Inner Focus, Shadow Reach, Shadow Focus and Shadow
   Affinity now all affect Psychic Horror.
-  Prayer of Healing: This spell now heals the target's party, rather
   than being limited to just your direct party.
-  Shadowfiend: Health scaling increased. Now receives 30% of the 
   master's spell power. Mana return increased to 5%, up from 4%. The
   Shadowfiend now returns mana when its melee attacks land, rather 
   than when it deals damage. No longer has a 75% reduced chance to be
   hit by melee, ranged and spells. Movement speed normalized to player
   movement speed. Tooltip revised. New Shadowfiend ability,
   Shadowcrawl, teleports the Shadowfiend to an enemy target and
   increases its damage done by 15% for 5 seconds.
-  Talents
   Discipline
   Divine Aegis: Divine Aegis effects will now stack, however the 
   amount absorbed cannot exceed 125*level (of the target). It will
   also now take into account total healing including overhealing.
   Improved Divine Spirit: This talent has been removed.
   New Talent: Improved Flash Heal: Reduces the mana cost of your Flash
   Heal by 5/10/15%, and increases the critical effect chance of your
   Flash Heal by 4/7/10% on friendly targets at or below 50% health.
   Grace: This talent no longer decreases damage done to the target,
   but the duration has increased to 15 seconds and the healing bonus
   has increased from 2% to 3%. This affect now cannot be applied to
   more than one target at a time.
   one target.
   Improved Power Word: Fortitude: Now also increases your total 
   stamina by 2/4%.
   Meditation and Improved Power: Word shield have changed locations.
   with each other.
   Meditation: Now grants 17/33/50% of mana regeneration while casting.
   Mental Agility: Reduced to 3 points (4/7/10%), down from 5.
   New Talent: Soul Warding: Reduces the cooldown of your Power Word: 
   Shield ability by 4 seconds, and reduces the mana cost of your Power
   Word: Shield by 30%.
   Penance: Damage increased approximately 30%.This spell can now be 
   cast on yourself.
   Power Infusion: This effect now has a new spell effect.
   Renewed Hope: This talent also now allows you to proc the Renewed
   Hope buff on all party/raid members every time you cast Power Word:
   Shield, reducing damage taken by 3%. Lasts 20 seconds.
   Unbreakable Will: Increased from 3/6/9/12/15% to 6/12/18/24/30%.
   Holy
   New Talent: Body and Soul: 2-point talent. When you cast Power Word:
   Shield, you increase the target's movement speed by 30/60% for 4
   seconds, and you have a 50/100% chance when you cast Abolish Disease
   on yourself to also cleanse 1 poison effect in addition to diseases.
   Circle of Healing: Healing increased by approximately 40%.
   Holy Concentration redesigned: Mana regeneration is increased by 
   16/32/50% for 8 seconds after you critically heal with Flash Heal,
   Greater Heal, Binding Heal or Renew. 
   New Talent: Empowered Renew: Your Renew spell gains an additional 
   5/10/15% of your bonus healing effects, and your Renew will 
   instantly heal the target for 5/10/15% of the total periodic effect.
   Serendipity redesigned: When you heal with Binding Heal or Flash 
   Heal, the cast time of your next Greater Heal or Prayer of Healing
   spell is reduced by 4/8/12%. Stacks up to 3 times. Lasts 20 seconds.
   Test of Faith: No longer increases critical effect chance of your
   heals, but healing done on targets lower than 50% health is 
   increased from 2/4/6% to 4/8/12%.
   Shadow
   Blackout: This talent has been removed.
   Darkness: This talent is now in tier-1, moved up from tier-6.
   Dispersion: Now clears all snare and movement-impairing effects and
   makes you immune to them while dispersed.
   New Talent: Improved Devouring Plague: Increases the periodic damage
   done by your Devouring Plague by 5/10/15%, and when you cast
   Devouring Plague you instantly deal damage equal to 5/10/15% of its
   total periodic effect.
   Mind Melt: Now also increases the periodic critical strike chance of
   your Shadow Word: Pain, Devouring Plague and Vampiric Touch spells
   by 3/6%.
   Psychic Horror: Has been redesigned and is now a 1-point talent. You
   terrify the target, causing them to tremble in horror for 3 seconds
   and drop all weapons (disarm effect: including bows) for 10 seconds.
   2-minute cooldown. Instant cast. The horror effect can be dispelled,
   but the disarm cannot.
   Improved Spirit Tap: Now grants 17/33% of mana regeneration while
   casting.
   Shadow Affinity: Now also causes you to receive 5/10/15% of your
   base mana when your Shadow Word: Pain or Vampiric Touch spells are
   dispelled.
   Shadowform: Now reduces all damage taken by 15%, not just physical 
   damage. Bonus damage from critical strike chance removed and 
   replaced by the ability of those periodic damage spells to generate
   critical strikes.
   Silence: Range increased to 30 yards.
   Spirit Tap: Now grants 83% of mana regeneration while casting.
   Vampiric Embrace duration increased to 5 minutes, up from 1 minute.
   PvP duration is now 60 seconds. Cooldown removed.
   Vampiric Touch: When dispelled, Vampiric Touch will deal damage to
   the afflicted target.

Rogues
-  Deadly Poison: The amount of damage this poison generates from the
   rogue’s attack power has been increased from 8% per application to
   12%.
-  Deadly Throw: Missile speed increased.
-  Instant Poison: Redesigned to have its chance to be applied based on
   the speed of the weapon (frequency-based).
-  Shiv: This ability can no longer generate a critical strike, and the
   poisons it applies cannot be critical strikes either.
-  Tricks of the Trade: Will now begin following the first damaging
   attack.
-  Wound Poison: Redesigned to have its chance to be applied based on
   the speed of the weapon (frequency-based).
-  Talents
   Assassination
   Hunger For Blood: No longer stacks.  Damage bonus changed to 15% for 
   a single application.  Requires a bleed effect active on the rogue’s
   target.  No longer removes bleeds from the rogue. Now costs 15
   energy and lasts for 60 seconds.
   Master Poisoner: Now also increases the bonus to apply Deadly Poison
   when Envenom is used by an additional 15/30/45%.
   Combat
   Adrenaline Rush cooldown reduced to 3 minutes.
   Killing Spree: Now also increases all damage done by the rogue while
   active by 20%.
   Savage Combat improved to 2/4% increased damage against poisoned 
   targets.
   Lightning Reflexes reduced to 3 ranks for 2/4/6% dodge and 4/7/10% 
   melee haste.
   Subtlety
   Shadow Dance now opens a new action bar when used.
   
Shaman 
-  Bloodlust/Heroism: Cooldown reduced to 5 minutes, but Sated and 
   Exhausted now last 10 minutes.
-  Earth Elemental Totem: The summoned Earth Elemental should now have
   significantly more health and slightly more armor.
-  Fire Elemental Totem: The summoned Fire Elemental should now have
   moderately more health and mana, and its damage scaling has been
   increased. In addition, the Fire Elemental’s spells now cost less
   mana.
-  Flametongue Weapon: Bonus damage from spell power now based on
   weapon speed.  Slower weapons will benefit more from spell power.
-  Frostbrand Weapon: Damage increased by approximately 20%.
-  Mana Spring Totem: This totem has been redesigned.  It now provides
   the same mana benefit as Blessing of Wisdom to the entire party or
   raid, but is exclusive with that effect.
-  Poison Cleansing Totem and Disease Cleansing Totem have been merged
   into Cleansing Totem. Cleansing Totem pulses every 3 seconds, down
   from 5.
-  Talents
   Enhancement
   Earthen Power redesigned: Your Earthbind Totem has a 50/100% chance
   to also remove all snare effects and make you and nearby friendly
   targets immune to them for 5 seconds when it pulses.
   Flurry: Now provides 5/10/15/20/25% haste instead of
   10/15/20/25/30%.
   New Talent: Frozen Power: Increases the damage done by your
   Lightning Bolt, Chain Lightning, Lava Lash and Shock spells by 5/10%
   on targets afflicted by your Frostbrand Attack effect, and your
   Frost Shock has a 50/100% chance to root the target in Ice for 5
   seconds when used on targets at or further than 15 yards from you.
   Lava Lash now has a new icon.
   Spirit Weapons: Now reduces all threat generated by 30%, not just 
   physical attacks.
   Stormstrike charges have been increased by 2, and cooldown reduced
   by 2 seconds.
   Improved Stormstrike redesigned: When you Stormstrike, you have a
   50/100% chance to immediately grant you 20% of your base mana.
   Toughness: No longer increases your armor. Instead, this talent now
   increases your total stamina by 2/4/6/8/10%.
   Unleashed Rage: Reduced to 3 points, down from 5. No longer
   increases agility, but instead increases your total expertise by
   3/6/9%.
   Elemental
   New Talent: Booming Echoes: Reduces the cooldown of your Flame 
   Shock and Frost Shock spells by an additional 1/2 seconds, and
   increases the direct damage done by your Flame Shock and Frost Shock
   spells by an additional 10/20%.
   Elemental Mastery redesigned: When activated, your next Lightning
   Bolt, Chain Lightning or Lava Burst spell becomes an instant cast
   spell. In addition, your Fire, Frost and Nature damage spells have a
   15% increased critical strike chance for 15 seconds. Elemental
   Mastery now shares a cooldown with Nature’s Swiftness.
   Elemental Reach: Now also increases the range of your Flame Shock
   spell by 5/10/15 yards.
   Lava Flows: No longer increases the range of your Flame Shock spell,
   but now increases your casting speed by 10/20/30% when your Flame
   Shock spell is dispelled for 6 seconds.
   Lightning Overload: Reduced to 3 points (7/14/20%), down from 5.
   Storm, Earth and Fire: No longer increases the range of your Earth
   Shock or Wind Shock spells, but now also causes your Earthbind Totem
   to have a 33/66/100% chance to root all nearby enemies for 5 seconds
   when initially cast.
   Thunderstorm can now be cast while stunned.
   Restoration
   Ancestral Awakening: This talent now accounts for your ineffective
   healing, rather than effective.
   Ancestral Healing and Healing Grace have swapped places in the
   Restoration talent tree.
   Cleanse Spirit now has a new icon.
   Mana Tide Totem: This spell no longer costs mana.
   Restorative Totems: Reduced to 3 points, down from 5. Increases the
   effect of your Mana Spring Totem by 7/12/20%, and increases the
   amount healed by your Healing Stream Totem by 15/30/45%.
   Riptide: This spell has a new icon.
   Tidal Force: Now has a new spell effect.
   
Warlocks
-  Banish: Now has a 6-second PvP duration.
-  Curse of the Elements (Rank 5): Increased to 13% spell damage, up
   from 10%. 
-  Curse of Recklessness has been removed. 
-  Curse of Weakness: Now also reduces the armor of the target by 5%. 
-  Enslave Demon: Spell haste penalty reduced by 10%. Melee haste 
   penalty reduced by 10%.
-  Doomguard: Cooldown reduced to 30 minutes, down from 60 minutes.
   Damage reduced approximately 30%, and health reduced approximately
   30%.
-  Drain Soul: Each time Drain Soul deals damage to a target which can
   grant experience, it now has a chance to generate a Soul Shard.
-  Warlocks now innately have an increased 10% spell hit chance on the
   Enslave Demon spell.
-  Fire Shield (Imp): You can now cast this ability on raid members, 
   rather than party members.
-  Ritual of Summoning: The summoning of the initial portal is now 
   instant cast, down from 5 seconds.
-  Soul Shard: This item now has a maximum count of 32 in inventory.
-  Voidwalker: The health bonus on this pet has been reduced from 60%
   to 10%.
-  Talents
   Affliction
   Eradication: Whenever you deal damage with Corruption, you have a 6%
   chance to gain the Eradication effect. The Eradication effect
   increases your spell casting speed by 6/12/20% for 10 seconds.
   Internal cooldown removed.
   Haunt: Now only increases your shadow damage-over-time spells on the 
   target.
   Malediction: No longer increases the effect of Curse of the 
   Elements, but now also increases the periodic critical strike chance
   of your Corruption and Unstable Affliction spells by 3/6/9%.
   Pandemic: This talent has been reduced to a 1-point talent. Now
   grants your Corruption and Unstable Affliction the capability to
   critically hit.
   Shadow Embrace: Now only increases the damage done by your shadow
   damage periodic spells.
   Siphon Life: The Siphon Life spell has been removed. Siphon Life now
   causes your Corruption spell to instantly heal you for 40% of the 
   damage done. In addition, the damage done by your Corruption, Seed
   of Corruption and Unstable Affliction damage-over-time effects is
   increased by 5%.
   Soul Siphon redesigned: Increases the amount drained by your Drain
   Life and Drain Soul spells by an additional 3/6% for each of your
   Affliction effects on the target, up to a maximum of 9/18%
   additional effect.
   Suppression: Now increases spell hit for all of your spells.
   Unstable Affliction and Immolation are now in the same exclusive
   category (both damage-over-time effects cannot be present at the
   same time by the same caster on a target).
   Demonology
   Demonic Empathy has been removed.
   Demonic Empowerment: This talent now has a unique spell effect.
   Demonic Sacrifice: This talent has been removed.
   Fel Synergy has been moved to tier-1. No longer increases intellect,
   stamina and damage of your summoned demon.
   Improved Enslave Demon talent removed.
   Mana Feed: This talent is now a 1-point talent, down from 3-points. 
   Now is the 21-point talent in Demonology, granting 100% mana 
   return to your pet, up from 33/66/100%.
   Master Conjuror: Increased from 15/30% up to 150/300%. 
   New Talent: Decimation: When you Shadowbolt or Incinerate a target
   that is at or below 35% health, your next Soulfire cast time is 
   reduced by 30/60% and costs no shard. Lasts 10 seconds. 
   New Talent: Nemesis: Reduces the cooldown of your Demonic 
   Empowerment, Metamorphosis, Soulstone and Fel Domination spells by
   10/20/30%.
   Destruction
   Aftermath redesigned: Increases the periodic damage done by your 
   Immolate by 3/6%, and your Conflagrate has a 50/100% chance to daze
   the target for 5 seconds.
   Backlash has been moved up to tier-5, up from tier-7. Now requires 
   Intensity (pre-requisite).
   Cataclysm: Now reduces the mana cost of Destruction spells by 
   4/7/10%. No longer increases the chance to hit.
   Chaos Bolt: Damage increased approximately 15%.
   Conflagrate: Spell now works similar to Swiftmend, consuming an 
   Immolate or Shadowflame effect on the target and dealing damage 
   based on the strength of that effect.  Reduced to a single rank.
   Improved Immolate: Now increases the damage done by your Immolate by
   10/20/30%, rather than just the direct damage.
   Improved Shadow Bolt: Now increases the damage done by your Shadow 
   Bolt spell by 1/2/3/4/5%, and causes your target to be vulnerable to
   spell damage, increasing spell critical strike chance against that
   target by 1/2/3/4/5%. Effect lasts 30 seconds.
   Improved Soul Leech: Now has a 50/100% chance to proc Replenishment.
   Molten Core: This talent has been moved to Demonology (tier-8).
   New Talent: Molten Skin: Reduces all damage taken by 2/4/6%.
   Pyroclasm redesigned: Now increases your Shadow and Fire spell 
   power by 2/4/6% when you critically hit with Searing Pain or 
   Conflagrate. Lasts 10 seconds. Also moved down to tier-7, from
   tier-5.

Warriors
-  Battle Stance: Now increases armor penetration by 10%.
-  Berserker Stance: Now increases damage taken by 5%.
-  Charge: Duration of stun effect now lasts 1.5 seconds. This effect
   no longer has diminishing returns.
-  Defensive Stance: Now reduces damage caused by the warrior by 5%
   (previously 10%).
-  Disarm: This ability now disarms ranged weapons as well.
-  Heroic Throw missile speed increased.
-  Intimidating Shout: Cooldown reduced to 2 minutes.
-  Shattering Throw: This new warrior ability, trainable at level 71,
   deals damage the same as Heroic Throw, but also causes the victim’s
   armor to be reduced by 20% for 10 seconds (stacking with Sunder
   Armor). If the victim is immune, it will remove that immunity
   instead of dealing damage and reducing armor.  Costs 25 rage. Only
   useable in Battle Stance. 5-minute cooldown.
-  Talents
   Arms
   Blood Frenzy improved to 2/4% increased damage.
   Deep Wounds: The damage done by this talent no longer receives
   modifications from effects that increase or decrease damage done by
   a percentage.  The base weapon damage used in the calculation will
   still be modified by those effects.
   Improved Intercept and Weapon Mastery have once again swapped places
   in the talent tree.
   New Talent: Juggernaut: Grants the warrior the ability to Charge
   while in combat. Critical strike chance of next Slam or Mortal
   Strike increased by 100% following Charge.
   Taste for Blood: Will now proc 33/66/100% of the time with a
   6-second cooldown.
   Unrelenting Assault: Now also increases the damage of Overpower and
   Revenge by 10/20%, and causes Overpower (when used to attack a
   casting target) to decrease the effectiveness of all the target’s
   non-physical damage and healing by 25/50% for 6 seconds. Tooltip and
   visual updated.
   Fury
   Improved Berserker Stance: Now increases strength by 4/8/12/16/20%
   while in Berserker Stance.
   Titan’s Grip: While you have a two-handed weapon equipped in one
   hand, your physical damage done is reduced by 10%.
   Protection
   Last Stand: Cooldown reduced to 3 minutes.
   Warbringer: Now also allows Intervene and Intercept to be used in
   any stance.
   
Professions 
-  Alchemy 
   All flasks now last 1 hour. To compensate, all flask recipes will
   provide 2 flasks for the same material cost.
   Blackmouth Oil and Fire Oil no longer require a vial.
   Elixir of Greater Firepower now grants spell power to all schools
   of magic.
   Flasks now stack to 20, and their vendor sell prices have been
   reduced to lower the Auction House deposits.
   Increased the health granted by the Flask of Stoneblood.
   Northrend flasks will be converted to mixtures. This includes the
   Flask of Stoneblood, Flask of Pure Mojo, Flask of Endless Rage, and
   Flask of the Frost Wyrm. Mixtures can create 2 flasks of the
   corresponding type. This allows players who stockpiled Northrend
   flasks to convert them to the new system without any loss.
   The Crazy Alchemist Potion is now correctly increased by Alchemist
   Stones.
   The Mercurial Stone is no longer required as a tool for alchemists.
   It is instead an uncommon-quality bind-on-equip trinket.
   You can now sometimes find Alchemist's Caches from bosses in Ulduar.
   Only players with an Alchemy skill of 425 or higher can loot these
   secret caches.
-  Blacksmithing
   Added a new recipe for the Titansteel Spellblade, an epic one-handed
   caster dagger, available from trainers.
   Added new recipes for epic gear, found rarely on Ulduar bosses.
   These recipes are unbound and can be traded.
   Most of the recipes in the 1-300 skill range of blacksmithing have
   received major stat updates to make them more useful.
   The Titanium Plating shield enchantment now reduces the duration of
   disarm effects by 50% as well as increasing your block value.
-  Cooking
   A new recipe has been added to cooking trainers for making Black
   Jelly, using several Borean Man 'O War as ingredients. While it
   looks disgusting, it restores more health and mana than the highest
   level food.
   Flint and Tinder is no longer necessary for creating a campfire.
   You're just that resourceful!
   Grub now sells the Dig Rat Stew recipe to players who completed the 
   quest.
   Ingredients such as Spices, Apples, and the like have been removed
   from most cooking recipes.
   Players no longer need to complete the Clamlette Surprise quest to
   gain Artisan cooking.  The quest now offers the unique recipe,
   Clamlette Magnifique. If you already completed the quest, you can
   visit Dirge Quickcleave in Gadgetzan to learn this recipe (for
   free).
   Prospector Khazgorm, found in Bael Modan in southern Barrens, now
   sells the recipe for Dig Rat Stew to the Alliance.
   Several Northrend recipes were given greater skill up ranges to make
   it easier to reach 450 cooking skill.
   You no longer need to learn cooking from books. The trainers have
   finally done their reading and are able to teach you the same thing.
-  Enchanting 
   Added two new recipes for enchanting staves with spell power,
   available from Vanessa Sellers in Dalaran City. 
   Greatly increased the drop rate of recipes found in pre-Lich King
   dungeons and raids. 
   Several recipes in the 250-300 skill range have been rebalanced, and
   the reagent requirements have been reduced.
   Some enchants now have level restrictions. Note: the enchant is
   never removed from the item to which it's applied, however, players
   no longer receives its benefit until they reach the required level.
   Any enchants modified in this way have had their tooltips updated.
   The enchanting interface now correctly sorts grey recipes by skill
   difficulty.
-  Engineering
   Added a new Reticulated Armor Webbing engineering enchant that
   increases the armor on plate gloves.
   Added a new Springy Arachnoweave engineering enchant that grants
   passive spell power in addition to turning your cloak into a
   parachute.
   Engineers can now obtain the schematics for Lil' Smoky and the Pet
   Bombling from certain creatures found in Gnomeregan. Specialized
   Gnomish or Goblin engineers can obtain both schematics equally. The
   repeatable quest that used to randomly grant these schematics has
   been disabled.
   Flexweave Underlay now grants passive agility in addition to its
   normal effect.
   Gnomish X-Ray Specs have a new model.
   Nitro Boosts now grant passive critical strike rating in addition to
   their speed boost. 
   Nitro Boosts now make you drop PVP flags when used, as well as
   preventing you from picking them up while the effect is active.
-  Fishing
   A new (and very rare) special mount can now be caught from Northrend
   fishing pools.
   New fishing dailies are now offered from Marcia Chase in Dalaran
   City!
   Players are no longer required to do the Nat Pagle, Angler Extreme
   quest to gain Artisan fishing. The quest now offers a special
   superior-quality fishing pole instead. If you already completed the
   quest, you can visit Nat Pagle in Dustwallow Marsh to receive this
   new fishing pole.
   The time needed to catch fish has been reduced.
   You can now fish anywhere, regardless of skill. Every catch has the
   potential for fishing skill gains, but you are likely to catch
   worthless junk in areas that are too difficult for your skill.
   You can now fish in Wintergrasp, and the fishin' is good!
   You no longer need to learn fishing from books. The trainers have
   finally done their reading and are able to teach you the same thing.
-  Gathering Skills
   Toughness, Master of Anatomy, and Lifeblood now have level
   requirements equal to the level required for the corresponding skill
   rank: Apprentice (1), Journeyman (1), Expert (10), Artisan (25),
   Master (40), Grand Master (55).
   You can no longer fail when Mining, Herbing, and Skinning.
-  Herbalism
   Find Herbs no longer tracks Glowcaps.
   Northrend herbs now yield more herbs on average.
   The herbalism requirement for gathering Tiger Lily has been reduced
   to 375.
   The time it takes to gather herbs has been reduced.
-  Inscription
   Added a recipe to trainers for creating a level 70 superior-quality
   off-hand item.
   Added a recipe for creating a different level 70 superior-quality
   off-hand item. Scribes will find the recipe is dropped from
   residents of Silverbrook.
   Added around 50 new glyph recipes. These new recipes can be obtained
   from Books of Glyph Mastery found as world drops on Northrend
   monsters. Reading a Book of Glyph Mastery randomly discovers one of
   the newly-added recipes.
   Glyph icons have been updated so it is easy to distinguish between
   classes.
   Players will now learn 3 recipes the very first time they perform
   Northrend Inscription Research. This does not apply to players who
   have already discovered recipes from Northrend Inscription Research
   (sorry).
-  Jewelcrafting 
   Added a new recipe to cut black diamonds.
   Added a recipe for Shifting Twilight Opal to the daily jewelcrafting
   vendor.
   Added recipes for superior-quality PVP rings and necklaces to
   Northrend jewelcrafting trainers.
-  Leatherworking
   Added a recipe for combining Borean Leather Scraps into Borean
   Leather. You can still use Borean Scraps from your inventory to
   combine them.
   Added new recipes for epic gear, found rarely on Ulduar bosses.
   These recipes are unbound and can be traded.
   Several lower-level items crafted by leatherworkers have received
   major changes to make them more appealing.
   Shadowskin Gloves and Dusky Boots no longer require Shadowcat Hide 
   to create, but instead require an equal quantity of Shadow Silk. 
   Shadowcat Hides can no longer be obtained from skinning.
-  Mining
   Northrend deposits now despawn 1 minute after mining them. This
   change was made to speed up respawning when nodes were partially
   looted.
-  Tailoring
   Added new recipes for epic gear, found rarely on Ulduar bosses.
   These recipes are unbound and can be traded.
   Added recipes for superior-quality PVP cloaks to Northrend tailoring
   trainers.
   The Lightweave tailoring enchant now sometimes grants a temporary
   spell power bonus instead of dealing direct damage to your target.
   Several lower-level items crafted by tailors have received major
   changes to make them more appealing.

Quests 
-  The fight event for the "Grim(oire) Business" quest at Vim'gol's
   Circle in the Blade's Edge Mountains now only requires one character
   to stand within a fire circle in order to summon Vim'gol the Vile.
   However, it still takes five characters, one in each of the fire 
   circles, in order to interrupt Vim'gol the Vile's Unholy Growth 
   cast.
-  Horde characters may now obtain the quest "CLUCK!" from Chickens.
   While Farmer Saldean won't be selling Special Chicken Feed to the
   Horde, perhaps "Westfall" William Saldean in Brill might...

Dungeons and Raids
-  New dungeon maps have been added for all Wrath of the Lich King
   dungeons.
-  Eye of Eternity
   Malygos will now properly delay before breathing after a Vortex on
   Heroic difficulty.
-  Naxxramas 
   The Chains of Kel'Thuzad will no longer reset the raid's threat.
   The Portal of Shadows created by Shade of Naxxramas will only 
   persist for a maximum of one minute.
   Players with pets who attempt to use the Obedience Crystals in
   Naxxramas will have their pets dismissed automatically so they may
   possess an Understudy.
-  Vault of Archavon
   Archavon, Emalon, and their allies will now banish themselves 10
   minutes prior to the beginning of a Lake Wintergrasp battle. A
   warning will be given 15 minutes prior to the start of Wintergrasp.
   They will not banish themselves if in combat.


User Interface 
-  New Advanced features for quest tracking are now available.  Players
   will need to activate this option within the Interface panel.
-  A new Color Blind option is available under the Interface panel.
-  Spell Effect Level setting has been split into Particle Density and
   Projected Textures. Previously, Spell Effect Level controlled both
   of these features.
-  Added new Video Mode Ultra (should only be used on the highest-end
   systems).
-  Shadow Quality has a new higher level of detail. The slider for
   adjusting Shadow Quality remains the same, though there is an
   additional step at the high end of the spectrum.
-  A new feature has been added allowing players to allocate talent
   points before confirming they’d like to spend them. This feature
   must be turned on in the Interface Options.
-  A new Equipment Manager feature has been added.  This feature can be
   turned on from the Interface Options, and will enable managing up to
   ten separate sets of equipped items.
-  New high-resolution player textures for Northrend armor sets have
   been added. Players can enable this feature by setting Player
   Textures to High in the Effects Panel of the Video Options.
-  Players can now return items purchased with an alternate currency
   back to the original vendor within 2 hours of the purchase time for
   the original cost of the item. Stackable items (such as Frozen Orbs
   and gems) and charged items that can be purchased with an alternate
   currency are not eligible.
-  Confirmation boxes have been added to purchases over 150 gold.
-  The calendar now supports a guild-wide sign-up sheet, allowing the
   event organizer to invite his or her entire guild.
-  Class roles (i.e. damage, tanking, healing) have been added to the
   Looking For Group feature. Class roles will be displayed when
   sorting through the Looking For More section.
-  Quest and Achievement tracking are now combined in a new Objectives
   Tracking window. Advanced features can be activated from the
   Objectives Options panel.
-  On-Use items will display in the Objectives Tracking when tracking a
   quest that uses them. No more searching through your bags for that
   on-use quest item!
-  Health and Fuel/Ammo bars have been added to the vehicle interface
   whenever operating a vehicle.
-  The mini-map has been optimized for better performance. Displays for
   vehicles, class colors, and off-map pings have been added as well.
-  Players first entering any dungeon that will result in a lock-out
   timer will be warned if they are going to be saved to the instance.
   This warning will include an option to port to the nearest graveyard
   before being saved.
-  New elite mob frames have been added for V-Key frames.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the UI & 
   Macros Forum.

Items
-  Arena Grand Master Trinket: Dodge rating has been replaced with
   stamina.
-  Badges and Emblems looted off of any dungeon bosses by a member of
   the party or raid will automatically be given to all eligible party
   or raid members. Party or raid members must still be inside the
   instance to receive Badges or Emblems.
-  Clams
   A new clam, the Giant Darkwater Clam, can be obtained by fishing in
   Wintergrasp. This mighty clam has a greatly increased chance to drop
   pearls, and yields up to five times the regular amount of clam meat.
   Loot from clams now stacks correctly!
   Changed the icon for Succulent Clam Meat so it doesn't look quite as
   disgusting. Now 100% more succulent!
-  Enhancement Shaman PvP Set Bonus: The cooldown reduction of
   Stormstrike has been increased to 2 seconds, up from 1 second.
-  Existing crafted resilience armor sets now offer additional stamina
   and resilience ratings through set bonuses.
-  Gift of Arthas: Now considered a curse instead of a disease.
-  Glyphs
   Death Knight
   Glyph of Blood Boil: This has been replaced with Glyph of Heart
   Strike, which adds a snare effect to Heart Strike.
   Glyph of Dancing Rune Weapon: Increases the duration of Dancing Rune
   Weapon by 10 seconds.
   Glyph of Dark Death: Increases the damage done by Death Coil by 15%.
   Glyph of Death Strike: This glyph now increases Death Strike damage
   by 1% per 2 runic power, but has a limit of 25% increase.
   Glyph of Disease: Your Pestilence ability now refreshes disease
   durations on your primary target back to their maximum duration.
   Glyph of Howling Blast: Your Howling Blast ability now infects your
   targets with Frost Fever.
   Glyph of Hungering Cold: Reduces the cost of Hungering Cold by 10
   runic power.
   Glyph of Icebound Fortitude: Icebound Fortitude now grants at least
   30% damage reduction, regardless of defense skill.
   Glyph of Plague Strike: Bonus lowered to 20%.
   Glyph of Strangulate: This glyph has been changed to reduce the
   cooldown by 20 seconds.
   Glyph of Unbreakable Armor: Increases the amount of damage absorbed
   by Unbreakable Armor by 20%.
   Glyph of Unholy Blight: Increases the duration of Unholy Blight by
   10 seconds.
   Druid
   Glyph of Barkskin: Reduces the chance you’ll be critically hit by
   melee attacks by 25% while Barkskin is active.
   Glyph of Berserk: Increases the duration of Berserk by 5 seconds.
   Glyph of Monsoon: Reduces the cooldown of your Typhoon spell by 3
   seconds.
   Glyph of Nourish: Your Nourish heals an additional 6% for each of
   your heal-over-time effects present on the target.
   Glyph of Rebirth: Target now returns to life with full health.
   Glyph of Savage Roar: Your Savage Roar ability grants an additional
   3% bonus damage done.
   Glyph of Shred: Now increases remaining duration on Rip by 2 seconds
   each time it is used, up to a maximum of 6 seconds.
   Glyph of Starfall: Changed to reduce the cooldown by 30 seconds.
   Glyph of Survival Instincts: Increases the percentage of your
   maximum health received from Survival Instincts to 40%.
   Glyph of Wild Growth: Wild Growth now affects up to 6 targets.
   Hunter
   Glyph of Aimed Shot: Now reduces cooldown by 2 seconds.
   Glyph of Chimera Shot: Reduces the cooldown of Chimera Shot by 1
   second.
   Glyph of Explosive Shot: Increases the critical strike chance of
   Explosive Shot by 4%.
   Glyph of Explosive Trap: The periodic damage from your Explosive
   Trap can now be critical strikes.
   Glyph of Kill Shot: Reduces the cooldown of Kill Shot by 6 seconds.
   Glyph of the Monkey: This glyph has been converted to Glyph of
   Mending, which increases the healing done by Mend Pet by 40%.
   Glyph of Raptor Strike: For 3 seconds after using Raptor Strike, you
   take 20% less damage.
   Glyph of Scatter Shot: Increases the range of Scatter Shot by 3
   yards.
   Glyph of Snake Trap: Now reduces damage taken by snakes from area
   damage by 90%.
   Glyph of Wyvern Sting: Now reduces the cooldown by 6 seconds, down
   from 15 seconds. No longer reduces the damage done by Wyvern Sting’s
   effect.
   Mage
   Glyph of Arcane Barrage: Reduces the mana cost of Arcane Barrage by
   20%.
   Glyph of Deep Freeze: Increases the range of Deep Freeze by 10
   yards.
   Glyph of Ice Armor: Now increases resistance and armor by 50%.
   Glyph of Ice Barrier: Increases the amount of damage absorbed by
   your Ice Barrier by 30%.
   Glyph of Living Bomb: The periodic damage from your Living Bomb can
   now be critical strikes.
   Glyph of Mirror Image: This glyph has been redesigned and now
   increases the number of copies of the mage to 4.
   Paladin
   Glyph of Beacon of Light: Increases the duration of Beacon of Light
   by 30 seconds.
   Glyph of Divine Plea: While Divine Plea is active, you take 3%
   reduced damage from all sources.
   Glyph of Divine Storm: Your Divine Storm now heals for an additional
   15% of the damage it causes.
   Glyph of Divinity: Now Lay on Hands grants 100% bonus mana, and that
   amount of mana is granted to the paladin and their target.
   Glyph of Exorcism: Changed to 20% bonus damage.
   Glyph of Hammer of the Righteous: Your Hammer of the Righteous hits
   1 additional target.
   Glyph of Holy Light: Can no longer critically strike and has had its
   range updated.
   Glyph of Holy Shock: Reduces the cooldown of Holy Shock by 1 second.
   Glyph of Lay on Hands: Now reduces the cooldown of Lay on Hands by 5
   minutes.
   Glyph of Salvation: When you cast Hand of Salvation on
   yourself, it also reduces damage taken by 20%.
   Glyph of Seal of Blood: When your Seal of Blood, Seal of the Martyr,
   Judgement of Blood, or Judgement of the Martyr deals damage to you,
   you gain 11% of the damage done as mana.
   Glyph of Seal of Righteousness: Increases damage done by this seal
   by 30%.
   Glyph of Shield of Righteousness: Reduces the mana cost of Shield of
   Righteousness by 80%.
   Priest
   Glyph of Dispersion: Reduces the cooldown on Dispersion by 45
   seconds.
   Glyph of Fade: Now reduces cooldown by 9 seconds.
   Glyph of Fear Ward: Now reduces duration and cooldown by 1 minute.
   Glyph of Guardian Spirit: If your Guardian Spirit lasts its entire
   duration without being triggered, your Guardian Spirit cooldown is
   reset to 60 seconds.
   Glyph of Hymn of Hope: Now increases the duration of Hymn of Hope.
   Glyph of Inner Fire: Increases bonus armor by 50%.
   Glyph of Mind Control: Increases duration by 30 seconds.
   Glyph of Mind Sear: Increases the radius of effect on Mind Sear by 5
   yards.
   Glyph of Pain Suppression: Allows Pain Suppression to be cast while
   stunned.
   Glyph of Penance: Reduces the cooldown of Penance by 2 seconds.
   Glyph of Psychic Scream: Increases duration by 2 seconds, but
   increases cooldown by 8 seconds.
   Rogue
   Glyph of Adrenaline Rush: Now increases duration by 5 seconds.
   Glyph of Backstab: Now increases remaining duration on Rupture by 2
   seconds each time it is used, up to a maximum of 6 seconds.
   Glyph of Cloak of Shadows: While Cloak of Shadows is active, you
   take 40% less physical damage.
   Glyph of Crippling Poison: Poison chance bonus increased to 20%.
   Glyph of Deadly Throw: Increases the movement reduction by 10%.
   Glyph of Fan of Knives: Increases the damage done by Fan of Knives
   by 20%.
   Glyph of Hunger for Blood: Increases the bonus damage from Hunger
   for Blood by 3%.
   Glyph of Killing Spree: Reduces the cooldown on Killing Spree by 45
   seconds.
   Glyph of Mutilate: Reduces the cost of Mutilate by 5 energy.
   Glyph of Pick Lock: Now reduces cast time by 100%.
   Glyph of Sap: Increases duration by 20 seconds.
   Glyph of Shadow Dance: Increases the duration of Shadow Dance by 4
   seconds.
   each time it is used, up to a maximum of 6 sec.
   Glyph of Sprint: No longer reduces the duration.
   Glyph of Tricks of the Trade: Your Tricks of the Trade grants an
   additional 10% bonus damage to your target.
   Shaman
   Glyph of Earth Shield: Increases the amount healed by your Earth
   Shield by 20%.
   Glyph of Feral Spirit: Your spirit wolves gain an additional 30% of
   your attack power.
   Glyph of Hex: Increases the damage your Hex target can take before
   the Hex effect is removed by 20%.
   Glyph of Riptide: Increases the duration of Riptide by 6 seconds.
   Glyph of Stoneclaw Totem: Your Stoneclaw Totem also places a damage
   absorb shield on you, equal to 4 times the strength of the shield it
   places on your totems.
   Glyph of Thunder: Reduces the cooldown on Thunderstorm by 7 seconds.
   Glyph of Totem of Wrath: When you cast Totem of Wrath, you gain 30%
   of the totem's bonus spell power for 5 minutes.
   Warlock
   Glyph of Banish: This glyph has been replaced with Glyph of
   Incinerate, which increases the damage of Incinerate by 5%.
   Glyph of Chaos Bolt: Reduces the cooldown on Chaos Bolt by 2
   seconds.
   Glyph of Demonic Circle: Reduces the cooldown on Demonic Circle by 4
   seconds.
   Glyph of Haunt: The bonus damage granted by your Haunt spell is
   increased by an additional 3%.
   Glyph of Immolate: The bonus damage provided by this glyph to
   Immolate’s periodic damage has been reduced to 10%, down from 20%.
   The 10% reduction to Immolate’s initial damage has been removed.
   Glyph of Imp: Increases your Imp’s Firebolt damage by 20%.
   Glyph of Life Tap: When you use Life Tap, you gain 20% of your
   spirit as spell power for 20 seconds.
   Glyph of Metamorphosis: Increases the duration of your Metamorphosis
   by 6 seconds.
   Glyph of Shadowflame: Your Shadowflame also applies a 70% movement
   speed slow on its victims.
   Glyph of Siphon Life: Redesigned to increase the healing received
   from the Siphon Life talent.
   Glyph of Soul Link: Increases the percentage of damage shared via
   your Soul Link by an additional 5%.
   Glyph of Succubus: Redesigned to remove all damage-over-time effects
   from the target of Seduction.
   Warrior
   Glyph of Barbaric Insults: Increases threat on Mocking Blow by 100%.
   Glyph of Bladestorm: Reduces the cooldown on Bladestorm by 15
   seconds.
   Glyph of Enraged Regeneration: Your Enraged Regeneration ability
   heals for an additional 10% of your health over its duration.
   Glyph of Last Stand: Now reduces the cooldown of Last Stand by 60
   seconds. The penalty on maximum health gained has been removed.
   Glyph of Overpower: Now provides 100% chance on all parries.
   Glyph of Shield Wall: Reduces the cooldown on Shield Wall by 3
   minutes, but Shield Wall now only reduces damage taken by 40%.
   Glyph of Shockwave: Reduces the cooldown on Shockwave by 3 seconds.
   Glyph of Spell Reflection: Reduces the cooldown on Spell Reflection
   by 1 second.
   Glyph of Sweeping Strikes: Now makes Sweeping Strikes cost 0 rage.
   Glyph of Vigilance: Your Vigilance ability transfers an additional
   5% of your target's threat to you.
-  Hearthstone: Cooldown has been reduced to 30 minutes down from 60
   minutes.
-  Darkmoon Cards of the North will now take three seconds per card to
   create.
-  Divine Hymn will now trigger Illustration of the Dragon Soul.
-  Frozen Scepter of Necromancy now sounds like other maces.
-  Heavy Junkboxes will no longer have deprecated poison materials.
-  Libram of the Sacred Shield: Increases block value.
-  Magic Dust now has a 10-second PvP duration.
-  Old Naxxramas Shoulder Enchants will now soulbind items.
-  Outrider's Lammellar Legguards and Sentinel's Mail Leggings have had
   their costs reduced to the correct value.
-  Pack of Endless Pockets can now be mailed.
-  Paladin Healer PvP Set Bonus: The bonus for Holy Shock healing has
   been reduced to 10%.
-  Patroller's Pack now sounds like a bag.
-  PvP Trinkets will now break Shackle Undead.
-  Several beverages missing from the "Beverages Consumed" statistic
   have been added.
-  Several foods missing from the Food Eaten statistic have been added.
-  Sigil of Awareness: Now provides bonus damage to Death Strike as
   well.
-  Sigil of the Frozen Conscience: The bonus to Icy Touch from this
   relic has been reduced to a value appropriate to the item’s level.
-  Sprite Darter Eggs: May now (very rarely) drop from Sprite Darters
   in Feralas. Note that only Horde characters can attack and kill
   Sprite Darters.
-  Three new mounts are available from Horde mount vendors, equalizing
   the number of purchasable normal and epic mounts: the Black Wolf,
   the White Kodo, and the Black Skeletal Horse (in Orgrimmar,
   Bloodhoof Village, and Brill respectively).
-  Thunder Capacitor again requires four charges.
-  Tiny Emerald Whelplings: May now (very rarely) drop from Adolescent
   Whelps in the Swamp of Sorrows.
-  White Tickbird Hatchling is now classified as a Pet.

Mac
-  Support for Logitech G-15 and G-19 keyboards with LCD displays has
   been added.
-  A number of performance and smoothness enhancements have been
   implemented.
-  The new high-res player textures are supported on dual processor
   systems running OS X 10.5.
-  A crashing bug involving chat channel commands has been fixed.
-  A problem involving window focus and foreground/background status
   has been fixed.
-  Movie recording feature has had some user interface improvements.

Bug Fixes 
-  Leaving a group while in an instance will now port you to the
   nearest graveyard rather than your Hearthstone location.
-  Yaaarrrr! now has a detailed tooltip.
-  Classes
   Death Knight
   Acclimation: This talent will no longer sometimes grant nature
   resistance while fighting Sapphiron.
   Anti-magic Zone: This ability will no longer cause strange absorb
   messages in the combat log and floating combat text.
   Dancing Rune Weapon: Fixed a bug making it trigger an unusual number
   of effects from the weapon equipped by the death knight. In
   addition, it will now only echo death knight spells whose primary
   purpose is dealing damage. This pet will no longer break stealth on
   nearby targets and attack them. Also corrected a bug making the
   effect last 8 seconds longer than intended.
   Death Coil: This spell will no longer sometimes cause the death
   knight to animate a swing twice.
   Death Grip: This spell will no longer automatically cast on the
   nearest enemy when no valid target is selected.
   Death Runes: Fixed a bug where it was possible when using two
   abilities with the same rune cost to not get correctly granted a
   second Death Rune when appropriate.
   Ebon Plaguebringer: Multiple death knights can now use this debuff
   against a target without overwriting each other.
   Howling Blast: Each rank now properly shares a cooldown with the
   other ranks.
   Necrosis: The damage from this ability will no longer benefit
   multiple times from damage increasing effects.
   Pestilence: This ability will now spread disease centered on a
   position between the death knight and its target, rather than the
   target’s center position (for very large creatures, this used to
   cause no disease spread at all).
   Raise Ally: The buff from this ability can no longer be right
   clicked to cancel.  In order to end the effect, the player
   controlling the Risen Ghoul must right click on the unit portrait
   and dismiss the pet. In addition, using this ability on a player
   whose level is too low will now give a “Target is too low level”
   error message instead of “You have no target.”
   Raise Dead: This pet now despawns instantly when it dies. In
   addition, this ability can no longer be used while riding any type
   of vehicle. The Risen Ghoul is also now properly immune to Charm,
   Fear, Sleep, and Horror.
   Rune of Cinderglacier: Charges of this will now only be used if the
   target actually took damage from the attack.
   Scent of Blood: This talent can no longer be triggered by
   environmental damage.
   Scourge Strike: The tooltip incorrectly stated it did 60% weapon
   damage increased by 9% from diseases, when it was actually 45%
   increased 11% from diseases. The tooltip has been corrected, but the
   damage done is unchanged.
   Sigil of Awareness: The tooltip on this incorrectly indicated it
   added much more damage than it actually did. The tooltip has been
   corrected to show the actual bonus.
   Summon Gargoyle: The Gargoyle will no longer re-attack rogues after
   they Vanish, or night elves who use Shadowmeld. Monsters will stop
   trying to chase a Gargoyle after it flies away. The debuff on the
   target indicating he or she is being pursued by a Gargoyle will no
   longer display the duration, and will be removed when the buff is
   removed from the death knight. Max duration in the tooltip changed
   to 40 seconds.
   Druid
   Bash: This ability will now still interrupt casting even if the
   victim is immune to the stun due to diminishing returns.
   Feral Attack Power: Heirloom weapons now correctly grant the amount
   of attack power in Cat, Bear, and Dire Bear Forms that is stated on
   the weapon tooltip. In addition, the attack power bonus will now
   work properly for druids below level 60.
   Lifebloom: Corrected some bugs with the new blooming functionality
   and dispels.
   Predatory Strikes: This talent now properly affects the attack power
   gained from weapon enchants.
   Swipe: Now properly affected by area-of-effect damage caps.
   Thorns: This spell will now properly use the druid’s spell power to
   determine its scaling instead of the target’s spell power.
   Wild Growth: Fixed a bug that sometimes prevented Wild Growth ranks
   from overwriting each other.
   Hunter
   Cower: This pet ability will now display its cooldown correctly.
   Disengage: This ability can no longer be used while riding any type
   of vehicle.
   Froststorm Breath: This pet ability will now display its cooldown
   correctly.
   Heart of the Phoenix: Can no longer be set to autocast (which did
   not work).
   Hunter traps will no longer be able to be set off by totems.
   Rake: This pet ability will now always refresh when used by the pet.
   Savage Rend (raptor special ability): Fixed a tooltip error to
   correctly note this ability boosts damage rather than attack power.
   Spirit Strike: This pet ability now has its damage increased by
   Prowl as intended.
   Spore Cloud: This pet ability will now autocast properly at all
   ranks.
   Steady Shot: Now does correct damage with heirloom weapons.
   Mage
   Arcane Potency: Fixed a bug where sometimes the benefit was consumed
   before altering the critical strike chance of the mage. In addition,
   will no longer benefit the critical strike chance of Molten Armor’s
   damage.
   Deep Freeze: Floating combat text will now display when this ability
   is able to be used.
   Focus Magic: When spell-stolen, this buff will no longer grant the
   originally casting mage a buff when critical strikes occur.
   Frostbite: Fixed a bug preventing this from overwriting the effect
   from the Frostbite talent.
   Ignite: The debuff from this talent now benefits properly from
   Arcane Subtlety. In addition, effects which modify damage done will
   no longer be applied a second time to the damage from this talent.
   Master of Elements: Now refunds the correct amount of mana when
   used with Arcane Missiles.
   Mirror Image: Mirror Images will now appear with maximum health and
   mana. In addition, this ability can no longer be used while riding
   any type of vehicle.
   Slow Fall: Can no longer be cast on NPCs.
   Torment the Weak: Now properly increases damage when used against
   victims of the snare from Hunter Frost Traps.
   Paladin
   Beacon of Light: This spell no longer duplicates the heal on
   yourself if your target is currently immune to being healed due to
   being on a vehicle. It will simply not duplicate the heal. In
   addition, Divine Plea will only penalize the original heal instead
   of applying the penalty a second time on the duplicated heal.
   Blessing of Sanctuary: This spell can now overwrite a Greater
   Blessing of Sanctuary that has less than 10 minutes duration
   remaining.
   Blessing of Wisdom: It is no longer possible to have the icon for
   this spell and Greater Blessing of Wisdom active at the same time
   (which didn’t give any benefit, but was confusing).
   Combat Expertise: This talent will now properly increase spell
   critical strike chance.
   Hammer of Justice: This ability will now still interrupt casting
   even if the victim is immune to the stun due to diminishing returns.
   Hammer of the Righteous: Now does correct damage with heirloom
   weapons.
   Holy Shield: Damage from this ability now increases properly from
   attack power.
   Judgement of Command: Fixed incorrect combat log tooltips.
   Righteous Vengeance: Effects which modify damage done will no longer
   be applied a second time to the damage from this talent.
   Sacred Shield: Now scales properly from spell power granted by
   Sheath of Light.
   Seal of Vengeance/Corruption: The bonus damage applied a target
   which already has the maximum stack of debuffs is now properly
   affected by Judgements of the Pure. In addition, fixed some missing
   tooltips in the combat log.
   Sheath of Light: Critical heals from Lay on Hands will now trigger
   this talent.
   Priest
   Inner Fire: Charges of this buff will now be consumed properly if
   the priest is attacked while using emotes.
   Mind Control: This spell can no longer be cast while it is already
   active.
   Misery: The tooltip on this talent was badly worded and implied a
   bonus much larger than it actually gave. The tooltip has been
   rewritten to be more clear.
   Prayer of Mending: This spell will no longer fail from “A more
   powerful spell is already active” errors. It will now always cast,
   including overwriting a weaker Prayer of Mending. In addition,
   trinkets which are triggered from casting a healing spell will now
   be triggered properly by Prayer of Mending.
   Rogue
   Master of Subtlety: The amount of time remaining on the damage bonus
   for this talent is now displayed.
   Shaman
   Cleanse Spirit is now properly in the Nature spell school.
   Tremor Totem: Now correctly pulses every 3 seconds, up from 1
   second.
   Warlock
   Dark Pact: Can no longer be cast when the warlock has an enslaved
   demon pet that does not have mana.
   Demonic Circle: Summon: This spell can no longer be cast while on a
   transport or other moving object.
   Fel Synergy: This talent will no longer heal vehicles the warlock is
   riding.
   Ritual of Summoning: This spell can no longer be cast while on a
   transport or other moving object.
   Unstable Affliction: Feedback damage from dispelling this debuff
   will no longer be modified by effects on the victim which modify the
   damage the victim does.
   Warrior
   Concussion Blow: Now properly triggers a 1.5 second global cooldown.
   Damage Shield: Fixed a bug which caused this ability to benefit from
   Recklessness.
   Enrage: This ability can no longer be triggered by environmental
   damage.
   Enraged Regeneration: While this is active, the warrior is blocked
   from using abilities that trigger being enraged (which would do
   nothing and waste the cooldowns).
   Improved Revenge: This talent will now increase the damage done by
   Revenge by the proper amount.
   Rend: Now does correct damage with heirloom weapons. In addition,
   low ranks of this ability will no longer incorrectly gain a damage
   bonus against targets above 75% health.
   Slam: Slam will no longer sometimes show 2 miss messages.
-  Items
   Dartol's Rod of Transformation has had its tooltip corrected.
   Glyph of Mocking Blow: Correctly increases damage of the ability by
   25%.
   Glyph of Rejuvenation: Effects which modify healing done will no
   longer be applied a second time to the healing granted by this
   glyph.
   Glyph of Shocking: Tooltip has been corrected.
   Heirloom Items: The bonus spell power granted by these items has
   been redesigned to provide substantially more benefit for players
   lower than level 58.
   Hook of the Master Angler: Using this item to shape-change into a
   fish now cancels Shadowform.
   Justicar (T4) Retribution Set: The bonus to seals now works properly
   on Seal of Blood and Seal of the Martyr.
   Mace of Unending Life is correctly a two-handed weapon.
   Many Northrend maces now make correct noises when sheathed and 
   unsheathed.
   Many items with 110 attack power now correctly grant 110 ranged 
   attack power.
   Oracle Talisman of Ablution's spell data has been clarified.
   Personal rating requirements for off-hand Deadly Gladiator items 
   should now display correctly.
   Several Hateful and Deadly plate helms have had their stats 
   correctly reduced.
   Several Naxxramas items with block values were not providing the
   correct stat amounts and have been fixed.
   Sigil of Arthritic Binding: The tooltip was incorrect for this item
   and overstated the bonus to Scourge Strike. This has been fixed.
   Thunder Capacitor's cooldown functions.
   Wall of Terror, Fleshless Girdle, and Inexorable Sabatons have had
   their stamina values adjusted to the proper levels.
-  Racials
   Blood Fury: The tooltip on the attack power version of this ability
   will now tell how much attack power it grants to the orc.
   Shadowmeld: Using this ability will no longer cause friendly players
   to deselect the night elf.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.0.9 (2009-02-10)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html

Druids
-  Ferocious Bite: This ability now only uses up to 30 energy in addition to its base cost.

Hunters
-  Kindred Spirits (Beast Mastery): This talent now grants 20% pet 
   damage at max rank.
-  Serpent’s Swiftness (Beast Mastery): This talent now grants 20% pet
   attack speed at max rank.
-  Pets
   Lava Breath now reduces the target's casting speed by 25%, down from
   50%.
   Poison Spit now reduces the target's casting speed by 25%, down from
   50%.

Mages
-  Arcane Power now increases damage and mana cost by 10%, cooldown 
   reduced to 1 minute.
-  Arcane Power and Presence of Mind now share a category cooldown.  
   Arcane Power causes a 15 second cooldown.  Presence of Mind, once 
   consumed, causes a 1.5 second cooldown.
-  Arcane Flows now reduces the cooldown of Presence of Mind, Arcane 
   Power and Invisibility by 15/30%. 
-  Presence of Mind: The cooldown has been reduced to 2 minutes, (down 
   from 3.)
-  Slow (Arcane): now increases cast time by 30%, down from 60%.

Paladins
-  The duration on all Seals has been increased to 30 minutes and can
   no longer be dispelled.
-  Divine Plea: The amount healed by your spells is reduced by 50% (down
   up from 20%), but the effect can no longer be dispelled. 
-  Sanctified Seals:This talent no longer affects dispel resistance, 
   but continues to affect crit chance.  

Priests
-  Inner Fire duration has been increased to 30 minutes and can no longer
   be dispelled.

Rogues
-  Hunger for Blood (Assassination): Now increases damage 5% per stack,
  (up from 3%.)
-  Mind Numbing Poison now reduces cast time by 30%, down from 60%.
-  Mutilate damage will now do 20% increased damage against poisoned 
   targets, down from 50%.
-  Slice and Dice: This ability now increases melee attack speed by 40%,
   up from 30%.

Warlocks
-  Curse of Tongues: Now increases the casting time of all spells by 25% 
  (Rank 1) and 30% (Rank 2), down from 50% and 60%.
  
Dungeons and Raids
-  The Obsidian Sanctum
   Changed the color of the fissure in the Obsidian Sanctum to be more visually distinct.  

User Interface
-  The “GM wishes to speak with you” alert/button, at the top of the 
   screen, has been changed so that addons do not obscure it. 
-  A clickable chat message has been added that duplicates the GM 
   alert/button.
-  When a GM wishes to speak with you the Help Request minibar button 
   will glow.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the UI & 
   Macros Forum 
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&forumId=11114

Bug Fixes
-  Fixed an issue where players using nVidia 3D glasses were unable to 
   see spell cooldowns.
-  Fixed a software mouse cursor bug that was causing the mouse curser 
   to disappear from view when over certain UI elements.
-  Fixed a player movement error in which other players were appearing
   to move erratically when traveling beside them. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.0.8a (2009-01-27)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We are updating World of Warcraft with a  minor bug fix patch. For updated 
information regarding the changes made in this patch, please visit the official 
General forum at: 
http://forums.wow-europe.com/board.html?forumId=10001&sid=1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.0.8 (2009-01-20)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html


General
-  Players may now create death knights on any realm once they reach 
   level 55.
-  Bonus Armor: The mechanics for items with bonus armor on them has 
   changed (any cloth, leather, mail, or plate items with extra armor,
   or any other items with any armor). Bonus armor beyond the base 
   armor of an item will no longer be multiplied by any talents or by 
   the bonuses of Bear Form, Dire Bear Form, or Frost Presence.
-  Racial restrictions on mounts have now been lifted. Night Elves on 
   mechanostriders? Tauren on raptors? You’re not seeing things.
-  Racial Resistances: These can now be mitigated against by gaining 
   additional chance to hit.
-  Tapping: All player spells which cause a creature to become 
   aggressive to you will now also immediately cause the creature to be 
   tapped.
-  All Silence spells now have diminishing returns. This includes: 
   Arcane Torrent, Garrote silence effect, Improved Counterspell effect,
   Improved Kick effect, Silence, Gag Order, Silencing Shot, Spell Lock,
   and Strangulate.
-  Dispel Resist talents have changed to protect only beneficial spells 
   and damage over time effects.
-  Shield Wall, Barkskin, Guardian Spirit, and Divine Protection are now
   off the Global Cooldown.
-  A new mailbox is now available at the Crows Tavern in the Dalaran 
   Sewers.
-  We have added over 60 new graveyards to Kalimdor and the Eastern 
   Kingdoms. 
-  The run speed in spirit form has been increased by 50%.  Night Elves 
   in Wisp form will now move at a 75% a bonus speed.
-  Reputation rewarded for killing mobs will no longer automatically 
   deprecate. This means trivial mobs will continue to give out their 
   full amounts of reputation on kill for the majority of cases in the 
   game (level 70 creatures in Stratholme, for example, will continue to
   award the full amount of rep to level 80 players seeking to boost 
   their Argent Dawn faction).
-  World of Warcraft now supports 3-D imaging. Visit 
   http://www.nvidia.com/object/GeForce_3D_Vision_Main.html for more 
   information.
   
Achievements
-  The Loremaster of Kalimdor Achievement has had its quest amount 
   reduced.
-  The Perma-Peddle Achievement is no longer a part of the 
   “Fool for Love” meta-achievement.
-  The Winds of the North has had its requirements changed.  This 
   achievement is now earned by getting Exalted with the Alliance 
   Vanguard or Horde Expedition.

PvP
-  Vehicles can now be affected by most player spells, except CC, snares
   and roots.
-  Arenas
   Arena rating requirements for all Deadly Gladiator’s Arena items have
   been reduced by 100.
   All rage and runic power are set to 0 when an Arena begins and the 
   preparation period is over.
   Ring of Valor: The small pillars will now rise immediately once the 
   arena begins.
-  Battlegrounds
   Lake Wintergrasp
   Wintergrasp Commendations can now also be purchased for the low low 
   price of 9 Wintergrasp Marks of Honor. Players can visit their 
   respective Wintergrasp vendors and put those Marks of Honor to use!
   Wintergrasp PvP vehicles have had their health increased. 
   Wintergrasp Tower cannons have had their health increased.
   The Wintergrasp Fortress Exterior walls have had their health 
   increased.
   The Fortress Keep door now has had its health decreased.
   The Orb is now instantly clickable.
   Elementals should now always despawn when the battle begins.
   There are now three ranks in Wintergrasp: Recruit, Corporal, and 
   First Lieutenant.
   Players will be eligible for participation rewards after two 
   honorable kills.
   Players will receive increased honor with increased rank.
   Players will receive additional Marks of Honor at Corporal or higher 
   rank.
   Players will receive corporal rank at 5 honorable kills instead of 
   two.
   Wintergrasp now extends further south so that more revenants can be 
   reached.
   Strand of the Ancients
   Antipersonnel Turrets will now gain vehicle immunities, use falloff 
   damage, and damage increased to 4000 + 200 per level to compensate 
   for falloff.
   The Strand of the Ancients Demolisher has had its health increased.
   The Strand of the Ancients tower cannon has had its health increased. 
   Seaforium charges have been moved closer to the graveyards on the 2nd
   tier.

Death Knights
-  All multi-rune abilities generate 15 runic power. 
-  Anti-Magic Shell: The cooldown has been lowered to 45 sec from 60 sec.
-  Anti-Magic Zone: This ability’s duration has been cut to 10 seconds.
-  Blood Aura now grants 2/4% instead of 1/2% healing.
-  Blood Presence now grants 2/4% instead of 1/2% healing.
-  Bloody Strikes will receive extra bonus damage from Pestilence.
-  Bone Shield: The mitigation has been reduced from 40% to 20%.
-  Corpse Explosion: Damage increased substantially, added 5 sec. 
   cooldown, and changed cost to 40 runic power.
-  Dark Command: Range increased to 30 yards.
-  Death Pact now grants 40% instead of 20% healing.
-  Frost Presence: The bonus armor has been increased from 60 to 80% and
   magic damage reduction increased from 5 to 15%.
-  Heart Strike no longer has a haste debuff but will now be able to 
   strike two targets.
-  Horn of Winter now has no cost and grants 10 runic power in addition 
   to its stat buff, but has a 20 second cooldown.
-  Howling Blast: Cooldown removed.
-  Icebound Fortitude now reduces damage by 20% instead of 50%.  The 
   amount of damage reduced increases with bonus Defense (to about 35% 
   for 540 Defense, but can go higher). 
-  Killing Machine: Instead of a chance to be triggered on critical 
   strike, this talent now has a chance to be triggered on each swing 
   based on the swing time of the weapon (slow weapons more likely, fast
   weapons less likely).
-  Mark of Blood: The total amount of healing this can grant is now 
   capped based on a percentage of standard creature health at the 
   target’s level.
-  Night of the Dead now grants 40/70% passive area spell avoidance to 
   your pet in addition to its current effects.
-  Outbreak will no longer receive bonus damage from pestilence. The 
   bonus from Plague Strike and Blood Boil has been increased slightly.
-  Pestilence no longer has a 10 seconds cooldown.
-  Raise Dead has now been split into two spells:
   Raise Dead now raises a ghoul or pet ghoul (if talented). Requires 
   corpse dust if no humanoid corpse is nearby.
   Raise Ally now raises a fallen party member as a ghoul and has no 
   reagent. Available at level 72. This should now last for 4 minutes.
-  Rune of the Stoneskin Gargoyle (two-handed only) now grants 25 
   Defense and 2% Stamina. 
-  Rune Strike: Damage decreased from 200% to 150% but threat increased 
   to 150% from 100%.
-  Shadow of Death: The duration has been changed from 45 seconds to 25 
   secondsseconds and now has a 15 minute cooldown.
-  Summon Gargoyle: Damage dealt by the Gargoyle reduced by 
   approximately 20% and maximum duration cut to 30 seconds.
-  Unholy Blight had had its cost reduced from 60 to 40 runic power.
-  Wandering Plague will now properly reset after being cast and now 
   considers the resilience of the target in determining its chance to 
   be triggered.
-  Vampiric Blood (DK) changed from 20% health / 50% healing to 15 % 
   health / 35% healing.
-  Will of the Necropolis will now reduce the damage of any attack that 
   takes the DK below 35% health by 5 /10/15% instead of boosting armor 
   when wounded. It no longer affects the cooldown of Anti-Magic Shell
   and retains the current damage reduction bonus.

Druids
-  Aquatic Form is now available from druid trainers at level 16.
-  Celestial Focus (Balance) no longer includes Starfall.
-  Feral Attack Power: All weapons now have the potential to grant feral
   attack power based on their dps (as compared to the best superior-
   quality weapons available at level 60).  Players will see their 
   existing feral weapons grant roughly the same attack power as they 
   did before (+/- 2 or so), but many new weapons will be options for 
   the feral druid.  Some feral weapons have had strength converted to 
   attack power to be more appealing to other classes able to equip 
   them.  All druids will see the amount of feral attack power granted 
   by an item in the item tooltip, if it grants any, but other players 
   will not see that information.
-  Remove Curse and Abolish Poison can now be used in Moonkin form.
-  Genesis: Now works with Tranquility and Hurricane.
-  Growl: Range increased to 30 yards.
-  King of the Jungle - The Bear effect is now physical, and thus cannot
   be dispelled.
-  Moonglow: This talent now also benefits Nourish.
-  Nature's Grace - Now also effects Revive.
-  Nourish: Wild Growth applied to a target now increases the healing 
   done by this spell by 20% like other heal over time effects.
-  Polearms: Now trainable by Druids.
-  Primal Tenacity: Now reduces the cost of Bear Form, Cat Form, and 
   Dire Bear Form by 17/33/50% in addition to its previous effects.
-  Protector of the Pack: No longer changes value based on party size.
-  Savage Roar: The buff now persists outside of Cat Form but only 
   provides its benefits while in Cat Form.
-  Starfall: Instead of canceling shapeshifting, now cancels on 
   shapeshifting into an animal form.
-  Survival of the Fittest: This talent now grants 22/44/66% bonus armor
   in Bear Form and Dire Bear Form in addition to all of its previous 
   effects.
-  Swipe: Swipe (Cat) has now been added at level 71, dealing 260% 
   weapon damage, costs 50 energy with no cooldown.  All talents 
   affecting the Bear Form version affect the Cat Form one as well.
-  Wild Growth now has a 6 second cooldown.

Hunters
-  Hunter Aspects are now off the Global Cooldown again. They still 
   have a shared 1 second cooldown.
-  All Hunter pet abilities with a cooldown of 30 seconds or 
   more are no longer on the global cooldown.
-  Arcane Shot: Mana cost lowered to match the cost of Steady Shot.
-  Aspect of the Wild - This aspect is now raid-wide.
-  Call of the Wild: The benefit from this pet talent now applies to 
   only the Hunter and their own pet.
-  Deterrence: Design changed to grant 100% parry and 100% chance to 
   "deflect" spells coming from the front, but prevents the Hunter from 
   attacking.  Lasts 5 seconds and has a 90 second cooldown.
-  Explosive Shot: Damage increased substantially, and additional 
   scaling added to compensate Survival Hunters for the decrease in 
   power of Steady Shot. No longer deals damage to secondary targets.
-  Ferocious Inspiration: This talent now also increase the damage the 
   Hunter does with Arcane Shot by 3/6/9%.
-  Improved Tracking(Survival): This talent has been slightly 
   re-designed. Now reads: While tracking Beasts, Demons, Dragonkin, 
   Elementals, Giants, Humanoids and Undead, all ranged damage done to 
   those types is increased by 1/2/3/4/5%.
-  Kill Shot – Cooldown reduced to 15 seconds, down from 35 sec.
-  Kindred Spirits: This talent now grants only 3/6/9/12/15% pet damage.
-  Lock and Load: Now has a 30 second cooldown.
-  Readiness: No longer resets the cooldown on Bestial Wrath.
-  Serpent’s Swiftness: This talent now grants only 2/4/6/8/10% bonus 
   attack speed to pet. The hunter attack speed bonus is unchanged.
-  Tranquilizing Shot (Hunter): Cooldown increased to 8 sec, up from 
   6. Mana cost reduced to 8%, down from 12%.
-  Unleashed Fury: This talent now grants only 3/6/9/12/15% pet damage.
-  Steady Shot: Now gains 10% of attack power as damage instead of 20%.
-  Viper Sting: Now drains a percentage of maximum mana.
-  Volley: The damage has been reduced on all ranks by approximately 30%
  (including attack power scaling).
-  Pets
   All Hunter pet abilities with a cooldown of 30 seconds or more are no
   longer on the global cooldown.
   The coefficient of Rake (Cat) and Scorpid Poison (Scorpid) has been 
   lowered.
   Rake: This hunter pet ability has had its damage adjusted to prevent 
   unreasonable scaling with attack power.
   Scorpid Poison: No longer stacks.  The damage has been adjusted to 
   prevent unreasonable scaling with attack power.
   Spirit Strike (hunter pet ability) now has an initial attack (which
   can crit) and then a single dot. Damage overall is higher.

Mages
-  Arcane Blast: This ability has been significantly changed. Arcane 
   Blast now increases the damage of the next Arcane spell by 15%. 
   However, using Arcane Blast itself does not consume the charge 
   itself. Each time you cast Arcane Blast, the damage of Arcane spells 
   is increased by 15% and the mana cost of Arcane Blast is increased by
   200%.  This effect stacks up to 3 times and lasts 10 seconds or until
   any Arcane damage spell except Arcane Blast is cast. 
-  Arcane Flows: Now also reduces the cooldown of Evocation by 1m/2m.
-  Elemental Precision: Renamed to Precision and now works on all spells.
-  Evocation: Cooldown reduced to 4 min.
-  Improved Blizzard: The snaring effect has been reduced to 25/40/50%.
-  Incanter’s Absorption: The amount of spell damage a Mage can gain 
   from this ability is now capped at 5% of the mage’s health.
-  Mirror Image: The Mirror Image Polymorph ability now has a range of 8
   yards.  In addition, Mirror Images will no longer have excessive 
   threat values assigned to them when they are created.
-  Slow Fall is now castable on others.
-  Torment the Weak: Now works with Arcane Blast and does bonus damage 
   against targets afflicted with any type of slow (such as the combat 
   slow from Thunder Clap).

Paladins
-  Avenging Wrath: Divine Shield, Divine Protection, and Avenging Wrath 
   cannot be used within 30 seconds of each other anymore. Forbearance 
   removed from Avenging Wrath.
-  Divine Protection: The penalty has been removed.
-  Divine Shield: The penalty has been changed so that all damage done 
   is reduced by 50% in place of an attack speed penalty.
-  Hand of Reckoning(NEW): Available on trainers at level 16.  It’s a 30
   yard range taunt that causes Holy damage.
-  Judgements of the Pure: This Holy talent now increases the damage 
   done by Seals and Judgements.
-  Judgement of Wisdom: Now returns a percentage of base mana instead 
   of a percentage of max mana.
-  Sacred Duty: Interaction with Divine Shield and Divine Protection 
   removed, but stamina bonus increased.

Priests
-  Abolish Disease and Cure Disease can now be cast while in Shadowform.
-  Holy: Circle of Healing now has a 6 second cooldown.
-  Levitate is now castable on others.
-  Mana Burn: Now burns a percentage of maximum mana.
-  Shadow
   Shadowform: You can now shift into Shadowform while mounted or 
   sitting.
   Vampiric Embrace- Mana cost of this spell has been removed.

Rogues
-  Cheap Shot: This ability no longer has diminishing returns against
   anything other than itself.
-  Fan of Knives: The cooldown has been removed.  In addition, now deals
   150% of weapon damage when used while daggers are equipped.
-  Feint: Rank 8 now reduces the damage taken from area of effect 
   attacks by 50% for 6 seconds in addition to its existing effects.
-  Kidney Shot: This ability now has diminishing returns against all 
   other stuns.

Shaman
-  All shaman talent points have been refunded. Please visit your 
   trainer to learn spells and abilities.
-  Fire Nova Totem: Now no longer generates threat.
-  Healing Way: Now only one application is required to reach full 
   benefit.  No longer stacks.
-  Improved Water Shield: Lesser Healing Wave now has a reduced chance 
   to trigger this talent.
-  Magma Totem: The damage and scaling has been increased and no longer
   generates threat.
-  Mental Quickness and Static Shock have switched positions in the 
   talent tree.
-  Mental Quickness: Reduces the mana cost of instant cast Shaman spells
   by 2/4/6% and increases spell power by an amount equal to 10/20/30% 
   of your attack power.
-  Searing Totem (Rank 4) now does the proper damage for its rank.
-  Tremor Totem's duration has been increased from 2 minutes to 5 
   minutes.
-  Elemental
   Elemental Oath: In addition to existing effects, now increases spell 
   damage done by the Shaman by 5/10% while Elemental Focus Clearcasting
   is active.
   Elemental Mastery: Redesigned. Now increases the Shaman’s critical 
   strike chance by 20% for 30 seconds. Cooldown remains at 3 minutes.
   Elemental Shields: This talent has been removed. It has now been 
   merged with Elemental Warding.
   Elemental Warding: Now reduces all damage taken by 2/4/6%. Changed 
   from only reducing Nature, Fire and Frost by 4/7/10%.
   New Talent: Shamanism-Your Lightning Bolt spell gains an additional 
   2/4/6/8/10% and your Lava Burst gains an additional 4/8/12/16/20% of
   your bonus damage effects.
   Storm, Earth and Fire: This talent has been moved up in the tree, and
   it’s talent points have been reduced to 3 down from 5. Wind Shock is 
   also included in the range increase (with Earth Shock). The damage 
   bonus to Flame Shock has been increased, up from 10/20/30/40/50 to 
   20/40/60.
   Unrelenting Storm: point cost reduced to 3, down from 5.  Now does 
   4/8/12%

Warlocks
-  Curse of Agony will now scale better when used with the Glyph of 
   Curse of Agony.  Ticks beyond the original duration will do 33% more 
   damage than the ticks that preceded them.  i.e. 74 -> 145 -> 217 -> 290.
-  Demon Armor and Demon Skin: Armor increased by approximately 120%.
-  Demonic Circle: The teleport now clears all snare effects.
-  Drain Mana: Now drains a percentage of maximum mana.
-  Emberstorm: Now works with Conflagrate.
-  Ritual of Summoning: Will now create a summoning portal object which
   can be re-used for multiple summons for 5 minutes.

Warriors
-  Bloodthirst: Charges have been decreased to 3, but the effect has 
   been raised to 1% per charge.
-  Fury: Bloodsurge: Now has a chance to trigger from any hit with 
   Heroic Strike, Bloodthirst, or Whirlwind.
-  Fury:Titan's Grip: The hit chance penalty has been removed.
-  Sudden Death: The amount of rage spent on an Execute while Sudden
   Death is active is now capped at 30 rage.  Improved Execute and the 
   Glyph of Execute will still increase the damage done by increasing the
   amount of rage able to be converted into damage.
-  Taunt: Range increased to 30 yards.

Professions
-  Alchemy 
   All flasks no longer require an alchemy lab to create.
   The Cooldown on Transmute: Titanium has been reduced to 1 day, and
   the materials required have been simplified.
   Reduced the cooldown on Northrend Alchemy Research from 7 days to 3 
   days.
   The chance to discover a Northrend transmutation has been increased.
   Changed the Crazy Alchemist Potion so it always gives health and 
   mana. It also grants the benefit of another random potion effect.
   Potion of Nightmares functionality changed.  You can now move to 
   interrupt the effect, and damage taken is no longer increased while
   you are under the effects of this potion.
   Added a new recipe for Ethereal Oil to grand master alchemy trainers.
   You can now discover a recipe for the Elixir of Water Walking with 
   Northrend Alchemy Research.
-  Blacksmithing 
   Reduced the spell power on the Titansteel Guardian to bring it in 
   line with its item level. 
   Increased the material requirements to make high level frost 
   resistance gear created with blacksmithing.
   Increased the materials required to make several recipes that require
   cobalt.
   Added a new recipe for shield reinforcements that increases the block
   value of shields.
-  Cooking
   A recipe has been added for Kungaloosh.  You can learn this recipe 
   from an NPC in the Dalaran sewers once you have completed the quest 
   'The Taste Test' in Sholazar Basin.
   A recipe for the incredible Fish Feast can now be purchased for 
   Dalaran Cooking Awards.
   Succulent Orca Stew and Shoveltusk Soup have been removed from the 
   requirements for any cooking achievements as they will not be added 
   to the game.
   A new recipe for Worg Tartare is now available for purchase with 
   Dalaran Cooking Awards.  This delicacy imbues hit rating and Stamina
   upon those brave enough to eat it.
-  Enchanting
   Many high level enchantment recipes have had the amount of Infinite 
   Dust and Greater Cosmic Essence requirements significantly reduced, 
   but with Dream Shards being added to them.
   Increased the Fire damage inflicted by the Icebreaker weapon 
   enchantment.
   Reduced the armor penalty granted by the Berserking weapon 
   enchantment.
   Increased the amount of healing from the Lifeward enchantment.
   Increased the amount of damage caused by the Icebreaker enchantment.
   Added a new recipe to enchant bracers with Stamina.  You can buy this
   recipe from Vanessa Sellers in Dalaran.
-  Engineering 
   Engineers may now be able to properly engineer Centrifuge Constructs.
   Reduced the cooldown and increased the duration of the effect for 
   Hyperspeed Accelerators.
   Added a new recipe for epic plate spell power goggles.
   Weakness Spectralizers are now usable by druids.
   The Saronite Bomb recipe now creates a lot more bombs for the same 
   material cost.  While this breakthrough was discovered by goblins, 
   all engineers can take advantage of it.
   Gnomish Lightning Generator has had its cast time and cooldown 
   reduced.
   The engineering Scrapbot can now repair.
-  Inscription
   Jessica Sellers, a new vendor in the Dalaran inscription shop, will
   sell most inscription inks for the cost of one Ink of the Sea.  She
   also sells Snowfall Ink for multiple Inks of the Sea.
   A new recipe for Glyph of Arcane Blast has been added to Master and
   Grand Master Inscription trainers.
-  Jewelcrafting
   Added a new recipe to convert a frozen orb and some green quality 
   gems into several superior quality gems.
   Reduced the spell power granted by the use effect of the Figurine – 
   Twilight Serpent, but reduced the cooldown significantly.
-  Leatherworking 
   Iceborne Belt pattern skill up range has been increased to the 
   correct range.
   The epic leg armor patches now require a Frozen Orb in addition to 
   their other materials.
-  Mining 
   Mining veins and deposits no longer require multiple hits to receive
   all the ore.  Players will receive around the same amount of ore, 
   stone, and gems they would have received from multiple hits.
   Weakened Giants and Iron Rune Sentinels can now be correctly mined.
-  Skinning 
   Increased the critical strike rating granted by ranks 5 and 6 of 
   Master of Anatomy.
   Carrion Fleshstrippers are now skinnable.
-  Tailoring
-  Reduced the cloth required to make a Bolt of Imbued Frostweave.
   Simplified the materials required for Shining Spellthread and Azure 
   Spellthread.
   Reduced the eternals required to make Brilliant Spellthread and 
   Sapphire Spellthread, but increased the number of Iceweb Spider Silk.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
   Greatly reduced the materials required to make the self-only 
   tailoring leg enchants (Master's Spellthread and Sanctified 
   Spellthread), but these recipes no longer grant any skill gains.
   Reduced the training cost for the normal Flying Carpet.
   Ebonweave now requires the tailor to be in the Maw of Neltharion in 
   Dragonblight to creating it.
   Spellweave now requires the tailor to be at the Azure Dragonshrine in
   Dragonblight when creating it.

Quests
-  The quest, "Scare the Guano Out of Them!" now only requires 10 
   Darkclaw Guano, down from 15. Also, only the character that scared
   the bat, or their party, may now loot the guano.
-  Shoveltusk Meat obtained during the quest; "Shoveltusk Soup Again?"
   is now correctly flagged as a quest item with no sell price.
-  During the quest, "Scalps!" you can no longer use Ahunae's Knife 
   to scalp kills that you aren't tapped to.
-  The path followed by the Har'koa's Kitten during the quest, "I Sense
   a Disturbance" has been improved.
-  Westguard Sergeants, Winterhoof Braves, and Ethereal Frostworgs 
   should no longer attempt to attack their opposite faction 
   counterparts unless the character controlling them is first attacked.
-  Westguard Sergeant and Winterhoof Brave demoralizing shouts will now 
   only affect the Winterskorn Vrykul and worgs at Skorn.
-  Various fixes to the Queen Angerboda event during the quest, "The 
   Slumbering King".
-  The daily quest, "Shoot 'Em Up" now only requires 15 Jotunheim Proto-
   Drakes to be shot down, down from 20.  As well, the harpoon now only 
   costs 5 energy to shoot, down from 10.

User Interface
-  Chat frames can now be made “Noninteractive”. When in this state, 
   they will ignore all clicks.
-  Various filters can now be applied to Achievements.
-  A special UI for chatting with GMs has been added.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the UI & 
   Macros Forum 
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&forumId=11114

Items
-  Emblems of Heroism can now be purchased at a 1 to 1 rate using 
   Emblems of Valor. 
-  The Darkmoon Faire exotic vendors have been updated with new items.
-  Amberglow Signet now correctly grants Hit Rating.
-  Deadly Gladiator’s Refuge has had its 4 piece set bonus changed. 
   It now reduces the cooldown of Swiftmend by 2 seconds.
-  Deadly Gladiator's Staff has had the Agility and Critical strike 
   rating restored to ratios consistent with other instances of the 
   Gladiator's Staff.
-  Dreamwalker Battlegear: The Rip bonus is now 4 seconds instead of 3.
-  Dreamwalker’s Regalia 2 piece bonus has been changed to reduce the 
   mana cost of Lifebloom.
-  Dreamwalker Battlegear: The Rip bonus is now 4 seconds instead of 3.
-  Druid Feral Tier 7 Set: The 4 piece bonus now also decreases the 
   cooldown on Tiger’s Fury by 3 seconds.
-  Druid Restoration Tier 7 Set: The Rejuvenation bonus has been changed
   to affect Lifebloom instead.
-  Gifts and Pledges of Adoration for the capital cities are now 
   soulbound.
-  The Flag of Ownership now has only a 60s cooldown to match the 60s 
   duration of the flag.
-  The following crafted weapons have had their stats adjusted to 
   properly reflect their intended power:
   Corroded Saronite Edge, Corroded Saronite Woundbringer, Cudgel of 
   Saronite Justice, Furious Saronite Beatstick, Saronite Spellblade, 
   Saronite Shiv, Savage Cobalt Slicer, Notched Cobalt War Axe, Sturdy 
   Cobalt Quickblade, Cobalt Tenderizer
-  Living Lashers can now properly be skinned with Herbalism.
-  Players can now open clams while riding a vehicle, sitting, mounted,
   stealthed, and invisible. 
-  Reduced the stats on the Savage Cobalt Slicer to match the weapon's 
   level. 
-  Some low-level rogue pvp gloves were accidentally omitted from the 
   patch 3.0.3 update. This has been rectified.
-  Some neglected creatures in Icecrown have found the contents of their
   pockets.
-  Totem of Hex now correctly grants 165 spell power to Chain Lightning 
   and Lightning Bolt, up from 85.
-  The white Polar Bear mount is now the proper (larger) size.
-  Glyphs
   Glyph of Conflagrate now makes it so your Conflagrate spell no longer
   consumes the Immolate or Shadowflame spell from the target.
   Glyph of Death and Decay has been changed to grant 20% additional 
   damage instead of its current effect.
   Glyph of Hammer of Justice: Now increases range by 5 yards instead 
   of increasing stun duration.
   Glyph of Invisibility duration has been increased.
   Glyph of Deterrence: Now -10 seconds instead of -20.
   Glyph of Holy Light now affects friendly targets in a larger radius.
   Glyph of Horn of Winter now increases the duration by 60 sec.
   Glyph of Spirit of Redemption: Now increases the duration of the 
   effect by a fixed amount of 6 seconds.
   Glyph of turn evil now also increases the cooldown of your turn evil 
   spell by 8 sec.

World Environment
-  Incapacitating Shout now has an 8 second duration.
-  Conquered Soul of the Blightcallers are no longer AE immune.
-  Corrected a raid emote in Violet Hold to display the proper creature 
   name.
-  Corrected a redundant aura tooltip for Locust Swarm in Naxxramas.
-  Several creatures in the Construct Quarter of Naxxramas did not have 
   Heroic values for hit points and damage.
-  Storm Peaks, Grom'arsh Crash Site - Peon Gakra is now an innkeeper 
   and the zeppelin hull, an inn.

Bug Fixes
-  Fixed a bug with a Wild Mustard plant that was under the ground in 
   Dalaran.
-  Racials
   Berserking: Can now be used properly while under the affects of Hand 
   of Protection.
   Heroic Presence: Now works properly in Ghost Wolf Form.
   Shadowmeld: This ability will now properly restore threat when it is 
   cancelled. In addition, it will correctly remove a player from combat
   if it is active when that player is the last person left alive that 
   the creature hates. This ability is now also unusable while affected
   by Faerie Fire.
   Will of the Forsaken: Using this ability while disoriented would 
   trigger it’s cooldown to no affect; it is no longer useable while 
   disoriented.
-  Classes
   Death Knights
   Blood Aura Will now always do the correct amount of healing, based on
   the actual damage taken of the target.
   Blood Caked Blade: Now does the proper damage amount when triggered 
   by an off-hand weapon.
   Bloody Strikes: The tooltip for this talent now has correct values.
   Butchery: Will now always grant 20 runic power, regardless of the 
   creature type killed.
   Chains of Ice: This ability is no longer able to land on death 
   knights who have Anti-Magic Shell active.
   Crypt Fever: It is no longer possible to have a duration longer than 
   the disease which caused it. Will also no longer incorrectly increase
   Death and Decay damage.
   Corpse Explosion: Fixed a bug where how much Runic Power the Death 
   Knight had was affecting the damage done, and also increased the 
   damage substantially.
   Dancing Rune Blade: The weapon no longer echoes the Raise Dead and
   Army of the Dead spells. In addition it will now more closely match
   the master’s damage and will cast Rune Strike when its master does.
   Death Chill: The effect from this talent will no longer be consumed 
   if Killing Machine is active.
   Death Pact: This will no longer cause guards to attack the Death 
   Knight.
   Desecration: will no longer break stealth.
   Ebon Plague: It is no longer possible to have a duration longer than
   the disease which caused it. It will no longer stack with Crypt Fever
   used by another character.
   Frost Fever: This talent now works properly when spell reflected.
   Gnaw: This ghoul ability is now able to be set on autocast.
   Icy Clutch: This will now be applied properly in all cases to targets
   that gain Frost Fever via the Pestilence ability.
   Mark of Blood now works correctly with periodic damage.
   Pestilence: The diseases will now spread correctly even when the 
   damage from Pestilence kills the primary target.
   Raise Dead no longer puts you in combat when you cast this spell.
   Shadow of Death: This ability will no longer cause tracking abilities
   to become inactive when the death knight becomes a ghoul.
   Tundra Stalker (Rank 1) will now work properly on Death and Decay.
   Unholy Blight: Will no longer cause spell pushback.
   Druids 
   Bear Form: This ability will now grant the correct attack power per 
   level for levels 71-80.
   Entangling Roots: When determining if a new Entangling Roots should 
   overwrite an old one, and will now calculate the correct damage 
   modifiers for the creature type of the target.
   Maim: Tooltip adjusted to match the duration the ability has always 
   had.
   Opening: Opening doors and objects should no longer cause 
   shapeshifted forms to be cancelled.
   Rake: The initial damage from this ability is now properly considered
   bleed damage, and will be increased by Mangle and Trauma.
   Savage Fury - Mangle (Bear) damage was being increased by a higher 
   percentage than intended. This has been fixed, and in result Mangle 
   (Bear) should see roughly a 16% damage reduction. Also fixed a bug 
   with Savage Fury where the Rake bleed effect was not being increased.
   Starfall will no longer cause nearby creatures to become hostile for
   no apparent reason while the Druid is affected by fear effects. In 
   addition, it will no longer pick ambient creatures as targets.
   Survival Instincts: The extra health from this ability now persists
   in all forms, but the ability can only be activated in Cat Form, 
   Bear Form, or Dire Bear Form. This prevents the health gain from 
   occurring multiple times if constantly shapeshifting.
   Swiftmend: Riptide will no longer cause this ability to light up, 
   and this ability will no longer sometimes consume Earthliving off the
   target.
   Hunters
   Aspects: All aspects now have a 1 second global cooldown.
   Aspect of the Beast: Will now increase Hunter pet attack power by the
   correct amount.
   Aspect of the Viper: Beast Lore, Scare Beast, and Tame Beast will no
   longer trigger mana regeneration from this ability.
   Call of the Wild: Now only works on the pet and their own master.
   Carrion Feeder: No longer causes extremely large amounts of threat 
   when the pet gains happiness.
   Chimera Shot: The secondary effects of this shot will now still be 
   triggered even when the target dies from the ability’s damage.
   Cower: Now longer shares a cooldown with Growl, but has its own 
   separate cooldown.
   Dust Cloud: This pet ability will now be cast by the pet at the 
   target instead of while they are moving toward the target.
   Marked for Death: Now works properly for Steady Shot and Glyph of 
   Steady Shot.
   Master’s Call: Now makes the pet immune to roots and snares for the 
   duration as well, allowing the pet to break roots on the target even 
   when the pet is rooted.
   Nether Shock: Pets will now correctly use this ability on all 
   targets, not just mana users.
   Noxious Stings: When this talent triggers Wyvern Sting, the Wyvern 
   Sting will now last the proper duration.
   Owl’s Focus: Free abilities will no longer consume this effect.
   Prowl: This ability will no longer sometimes turn autocast on by 
   itself.
   Sniper Training: Now increases the damage of Aimed Shot by the 
   correct amount.
   Spirit Strike: This pet ability’s duration and period have both been
   reduced to 6 seconds.
   Spore Cloud: This ability will now work properly.
   Swipe: The tooltip has been adjusted.
   Tracking: Entering an arena no longer disables tracking types.
   Fixed a bug that allowed Viper’s Sting to target death knights. They 
   are now invalid targets.
   Mages
   Arcane Missiles: This spell now only has one chance to trigger Arcane
   Concentration.
   Brain Freeze: This talent can now be triggered by Blizzard.
   Burnout: This talent will now properly charge the mage additional 
   mana when Living Bomb causes a critical strike.
   Fingers of Frost: This talent can now trigger properly from Frost 
   Armor.
   Frost Nova: Will now properly overwrite the effect of Shattered 
   Barrier and of Frostbite.
   Icy Veins: The spell pushback reduction from this talent now works on
   Frostfire Bolt.
   Improved Scorch: This talent no longer triggers effects that trigger 
   on casting a spell.
   Incanter’s Absorption: This talent will now work properly when the 
   mage is sitting.
   Living Bomb: Now triggers Ignite when it causes a critical strike. In
   addition, the final explosion will now still occur even if the mage 
   is affected by a crowd control effect.
   Molten Fury: This talent will now interact correctly with Torment the
   Weak.
   Precision: Frostfire Bolt will no longer receive double the intended
   benefit from this talent.
   Spell Power: Now affects the critical strike chance of Blizzard.
   Paladins
   Devotion aura: When mixing two different ranks of this ability in a 
   party, players will no longer sometimes see a spurious second copy of
   the buff.
   Hand of Freedom: Now works properly against the froststorm Breath 
   Hunter pet ability.
   Judgement of Blood, Judgement of Command, and Judgement of the Martyr
   will now gain the correct damage modifiers for the creature type of 
   the target.
   Judgement of Light: The tooltip has been corrected to remove the 
   implication that it only works on melee attacks.
   Judgement of the Wise: The amount of mana gained has been corrected
   to match the tooltip.
   Pure of Heart: This talent will no longer cause Curse of Agony to 
   do more damage than intended.
   Repentance: Avenger’s Shield no longer breaks Repentance, 
   but unfortunately, Seal of Vengeance and Corruption damage will break
   it again.  This will be corrected in a future patch.
   Righteous Vengeance: This talent will now calculate its damage 
   correctly when the damage is absorbed. In addition this ability will
   no longer cause excessive damage when refreshed on targets with 
   damage reduction effects active.
   Seal of Command: The tooltip has been adjusted to show the damage 
   gained from spell power.
   Shield of Righteousness now properly shares a cooldown for 
   both ranks.
-  Priest
   Dispersion: This ability can no longer be cast while affected by 
   Cyclone; doing so consumed the cooldown to no effect.
   Guardian Spirit: It is no longer possible for simultaneous killing 
   blows to trigger the heal from this ability multiple times.
   Improved Holy Concentration: The tooltip has been rewritten to 
   indicate that this talent reduces cast time rather than providing 
   haste.
   Mind Flay - Fixed a bug with targeting where you would not 
   deal damage if not facing the target while channeling. Also corrected
   an issue where the damage from this ability was slightly delayed.
   Prayer of Mending: Will now only benefit from the healing talents of 
   the priest who cast the original spell.
   Rapture: This talent will now correctly return mana for Power Word: 
   Shield based on the caster’s mana poll instead of the target’s mana 
   pool.
   Shadow Weaving: Shadow Word: Death: Will now only apply one copy of 
   this buff per cast.
   Shadow Word: Pain now will gain the correct damage modifiers for the
   creature type of the target.
   Surge of Light: Prayer of Mending will no longer sometimes cause 
   Surge of Light to trigger on Priests who do not have that talent.
   Twisted Faith: This talent will no longer sometimes cause Shadow 
   Word: Pain to fail due to a more powerful spell being in effect.
   Rogues
   Envenom: The tooltip values have been corrected to be accurate.
   Fan of Knives: All poisons will now trigger correctly when used with
   this ability.
   Honor Among Thieves: The bug where stacking multiple rogues with this
   talent caused them all to gain additional combo points has been 
   fixed. In addition, it no longer cancels eating and drinking if a 
   party member gains a critical strike while it is active.
   Killing Spree: This ability no longer breaks stealth if it fails due 
   to all targets being out of range.
   Mutilate: this ability will no longer give poisons on the off-hand 
   weapon two chances to be triggered.
   Turn the Tables: This talent no longer generates threat when it 
   triggers.
   Shaman 
   Chain Heal: This spell will now give an invalid target error message
   if the primary target is a totem.
   Earth Shield: Now correctly uses the Shaman’s own spell critical 
   strike chance to determine the chance of a critical heal.
   Elemental Shields was reducing flat physical damage, not a 
   percentage. Now properly reduced by a percentage.
   Lava Lash - Fixed a bug which allowed you to use the ability 
   even if you had a shield in offhand. Now requires a 1hand axe, fist 
   or dagger to be able to be used. Bug #147699.
   Fixed a bug where Thunderstorm (Elemental) was knocking back 
   15 yards, instead of 20. It should now roughly knockback the correct 
   length of 20 yards.
   Magma Totem: Fixed a bug that capped the damage of this ability at 
   too low of a level.
   Resistance Totems: Players will no longer see two copies of these 
   buffs when two shamans cast the totems simultaneously.
   Spirit Walk: This Feral Spirit ability will now properly clear roots
   and snares from the Shaman master.
   Stoneclaw Totem: The tooltip has been revised to indicate the damage 
   absorb shield also works on the Stoneclaw Totem itself.
   Warlock
   Warlock Pets: Some pets were not properly classified to receive 
   correct creature scaling for Wrath of the Lich King. Their health 
   and damage done will now be higher.
   Corruption will now gain the correct damage modifiers for the 
   creature type of the target.
   Create Healthstone: Attempting to create a healthstone when you 
   already have one no longer consumes mana or triggers the cooldown 
   of this ability.
   Demonic Circle: Teleport: the button for this ability will now darken
   when the Warlock is out of range of the Demonic Circle and will light
   up when the Warlock is in range.
   Demon Power Scaling: Spell power gained from spirit via the Fel Armor
   ability will now properly affect the scaling of spell power and 
   attack power on summoned demons.
   Drain Mana: This spell will no longer cancel when the target’s mana 
   poll is low or the caster’s mana poll is full. It also now generates 
   a very small amount of threat instead of no threat.
   Everlasting Affliction: Will now calculate correct damage values for 
   Corruption when it is refreshed in all cases.
   Haunt: Will now gain correct damage modifiers for the creature type 
   of the target. In addition, this ability is now limited to a single 
   target as intended. This also now works properly when refreshed on 
   its current target.
   Mana Feed: This talent will no longer sometimes fire for warlocks who
   do not have the talent.
   Master Conjuror: Tooltip revised to indicate it does not increase the
   damage bonuses of Firestones or Spellstones.
   Metamorphosis: The bonus armor effect from this ability will now 
   calculate properly and interact correctly with armor buffs and 
   debuffs.
   Ritual of Doom: A Doomguard summoned with this spell will now scale 
   properly from its master’s stats.
   Shadow Embrace: This ability will now create a separate debuff stack 
   for each Warlock with the talent, and each warlock will benefit 
   properly from his or her own debuff.
   Soul Siphon: Will now gain the correct damage modifiers for the 
   creature type of the target.
   Unstable Affliction: Will now gain the correct damage modifiers for
   the creature type of the target.
   Warrior
   Bladestorm: Fixed a bug where sometimes stuns and roots would not be 
   removed properly when this ability is used.
   Damage Shield: Rank 1 of this ability now works properly.
   Heroic Throw no longer triggers the snare from Mage Frost Armor.
   PvP
   The Wintergrasp Aura should now properly update in all instances, 
   transferring the buff when the zone control changes.
   Arena: Dalaran Sewer: The Flush effect which pushes players out will
   now also remove the ability to use Demonic Circles summoned during 
   the arena start time.
   Items
   Idol of the Emerald Queen: This idol was providing greater healing 
   than implied by its tooltip. It has been reduced to correct value.
   Glyph of Ambush: This glyph will now interact correctly with 
   Initiative when Ambush is used outside of combat range.
   Glyph of Charge: The stun from Charge will now work properly when 
   Charge is used with the extra range from this glyph.
   Glyph of Corpse Explosion: Additional explosions from this glyph 
   will no longer consume Unholy Runes.
   Glyph of Rejuvenation: The heal from this glyph is now properly 
   considered a periodic heal.
   Gronstalker Set: The Aspect of Viper bonus from this set has been 
   changed to work correctly with the redesigned Aspect of the Viper.
   Mana Potions: Warriors and Death Knights now receive a correct error
   message when attempting to use mana potions.
   Scrolls: Buffs from scrolls can now only be overwritten by more 
   powerful scrolls.
   Soul Preserver: This item will now interact correctly with Desperate
   Prayer, Lay on Hands, Riptide, and Wild Growth.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.0.3
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html


General
-  Removed “A Mask for All Occasions” as criteria for the “Hallowed 
   Be thy Name” meta achievement.
-  Replenishment: Players below level 50 can now benefit from this 
   effect.
-  Resilience: The damage reduction component of resilience has been 
   increased from 2 times the critical strike chance reduction to 2.2 
   times the critical strike chance reduction. In addition, the maximum 
   damage reduction to a critical strike from resilience has been 
   increased from 30% to 33%.

Racial
-  Blood Fury: No longer triggers global cooldown.
-  Shadowmeld: The cooldown will now start on use instead of on break.

Druids
-  Druid talents points have been refunded.  Players will need to visit 
   a class trainer to relearn spells and abilities.
-  The Swift Flight Form is now available on the trainer at level 71, 
   requiring 300 riding skill, and Flight Form learned.
-  Bash: The interrupt from this ability will now work on targets that 
   are immune to the stun.
-  Berserk: Now clears the cooldown on Mangle Bear.
-  Earth and Moon and Moonfury (Balance) reduced from 5 ranks each to 3 
   ranks each.
-  Eclipse: Buff duration extended to 15 sec and bonuses doubled.  The 
   cooldown has been increased to 40 seconds.
-  Growl: Cooldown changed to 8 sec.
-  Insect Swarm: Tooltip corrected to indicate it does not affect hit 
   chance with spells.
-  Moonkin: Only single target spell critical strikes can trigger the 
   mana gain from this talent.
-  Nature’s Swiftness: This ability will no longer give chances to 
   trigger Omen of Clarity.
-  Omen of Clarity: Will no longer be triggered by the Honorless Target
   buff gained when entering the world.
-  Survival Instincts will no longer be on the Global Cooldown.
-  Swiftmend: now benefits correctly from Genesis talent.
-  Tiger’s Fury: Ranks 5 and 6 have had their damage bonus decreased.

Hunters
-  Aimed Shot: Added to Barrage and Improved Barrage talent.
-  Animal Handler: Now increases your pet’s expertise by 5/10. (No 
   longer increases the pet’s chance to hit.)
-  Aspects now have a shared cooldown category of 1 sec and no longer 
   have a start cooldown.
-  Aspect of the Dragonhawk: New aspect added that combines the benefit
   of Aspect of the Monkey and Aspect of the Hawk, available at level 
   75 and 80.
-  Aspect of the Monkey: The Dodge chance has been increased from 8% to 
   18%.
-  Aspect of the Viper: The per attack mana regeneration has been 
   reduced by 50% but this ability now generates 4% of maximum mana 
   every 3 sec. In addition, the per attack regeneration now also works 
   on melee attacks.
-  Disengage now fails if you’re rooted and is no longer on the global 
   cooldown.Cooldown reduced to 25 seconds and no longer requires a 
   target, though the hunter has to be in combat.  
-  Hunter vs. Wild: The attack power bonus from this talent now applies
   properly to Hunter pets.  In addition, the bonus attack power will 
   now be recalculated properly from equipping items.
-  Improved Aspect of the Hawk: This talent no longer causes incorrect 
   mana costs when interacting with the Rapid Recuperation and Improved 
   Steady Shot talents.
-  Mana cost of Disengage has been lowered to 5% of base mana, down from
    14%.
-  Pets
   Rake (Cat), Scorpid Poison (Scorpid): Lowered damage of all ranks.
   Stampede (Rhino): Lowered the knockback to 10 yards.
   Raised the damage of exotic attacks:  Spirit Strike, Lava Breath, 
   Froststorm Breath, Acid Spit, and Stampede.
   Lowered the cost of pet specials from 25 to 20.
-  Thrill of the Hunt: The mana gained from using this talent with 
   Explosive Shot is now 1/3 of the normal amount per critical strike 
   (but gets 3 opportunities per cast.)
-  T.N.T.: Explosive Shot can now only trigger this talent when it is 
   initially fired.
-  Windfury Totem and Improved Icy Talons no longer affect ranged haste.

Mages
-  Arcane Potency: The additional crit bonus is now consumed immediately
   on cast of a travel time spell, so it is no longer possible to make 
   two spells benefit from one charge. (Ex. Fireball followed by 
   Fireblast.)
-  Blast Wave: no longer receives double the intended critical strike 
   bonus from Combustion.
-  Burnout: Now consumes extra mana as intended when Living Bomb gets 
   a critical strike.
-  Brain Freeze: Now only frost spells that can chill can trigger the 
   mana gain from this talent.
-  Cold as Ice: No longer reduces the cooldown on Deep Freeze.
-  Deep Freeze: Now consumes a charge of Fingers of Frost when used.
-  Focus Magic: Now works properly when mages with this talent use the 
   ability on each other.
-  Frostfire Bolt: The periodic damage effect from Rank 2 of this spell 
   now benefits from spell power gains.
-  Living Bomb: Mana cost reduced to be the same as Arcane Explosion. It
   no longer causes the caster to stand up when the final explosion 
   occurs and it is now possible for each mage to have Living Bomb 
   active on a target.
-  Master of Elements: Now works with Living Bomb.
-  Molten Fury: This talent no longer prevents Ice Lance ranks 2 and 3 
   from dealing triple damage against frozen targets.
-  Reduced the mana cost of Fireball, Frostbolt, Frostfire Bolt, Arcane
   Blast, Arcane Missiles, and Arcane Explosion.
-  Torment the Weak: Now works correctly when the Mage also knows the 
   Molten Fury Talent.

Paladins
-  Art of War: No longer increases critical strike damage on Judgements,
   Crusader Strike, and Divine Storm, instead increases all damage done
   by those abilities by a smaller amount.
-  The Avenger’s Shield bounce distance has been reduced to 10 yards 
   (from 15).
-  The epic ground mount is now available on the trainer at level 61, 
   requiring 150 riding skill, and the non-epic mount learned.
-  Blessing of Might: Rank 8 points increased slightly to prevent from 
   being overwritten by Battle Shout 8 that has a shorter duration (also 
   applies to Greater Blessing of Might 3.)
-  Blessing of Sanctuary: It is no longer possible to have both Blessing
   of Sanctuary and Greater Blessing of Sanctuary active on a target at 
   the same time.
-  Crusade: No longer applies damage bonus twice to critical strikes.
-  Divine Plea: This spell’s duration is no longer affected by haste.
-  Divine Purpose: Rank 1 of this ability will now correctly determine 
   its chance of remove stun.
-  Enlightened Judgments now increases range by 15/30 (was 10/20).
-  Eye for an Eye: No longer breaks crowd control effects.
-  Hammer of Justice: The interrupt from this ability will also be 
   redirected when the stun is redirected. In addition, the interrupt 
   will now work on targets immune to stun.
-  Hammer of the Righteous: Tooltip corrected to indicate it does 4 
   times weapon dps instead of 3.
-  Hammer of Wrath: Now can’t be used until the target is below 20% 
   health.
-  Infusion of Light (Holy) now affects Flash of Light too, reducing its
   cast time down to zero and can be used while moving.
-  Judgements: The debuffs from Judgement of Light, Judgement of Wisdom,
   and Judgement of Justice will no longer be applied if the Judgement
   spell itself misses.
-  Judgements of the Pure: Haste increased to 3/6/9/12/15%.
-  Judgements of the Wise: Mana gained reduced from 33% to 15% of base 
   mana.
-  Judgement of Wisdom: Mana gained reduced to 1% of maximum mana and 
   proc frequency cut by 50%.
-  Repentance PvP duration reduced to 6 sec.
-  Righteous Defense cooldown has been lowered to 8 sec (was 15 sec).
-  Righteous Vengeance: No longer increases critical strike damage on 
   Judgements and Divine Storm, instead applies a DoT effect similar to
   Deep Wounds.
-  Seal of the Martyr: Tooltip for Judgement damage was incorrect and 
   has been fixed.
-  Sheath of Light: Now correctly benefits Judgements of Command, Blood,
   and The Martyr.
-  Shield of the Templar now also reduces all damage taken by 1/2/3%.

Priests
-  Binding Heal: Now only consumes one charge of Holy Concentration per
   cast.
-  Borrowed Time: Charge no longer consumed by spells with a base cast 
   time that is instant.
-  Devouring Plague: The bonus coefficient has been increased to be on 
   par with other DoT spells. Base damage on ranks 7,8,and 9 decreased
   to partially compensate for better scaling.
-  Divine Providence: This talent now also reduces the cooldown of your 
   Prayer of Mending spell by 6/12/18/24/30%.  With 5 points applied, it
   takes Prayer of Mending’s cooldown from 10 sec to 7 sec.
-  Divine Spirit: Now can be refreshed properly on self after logging in
   and out or zoning. (Also applies to Prayer of Spirit.)
-  Guardian Spirit: A target may now have only one Guardian Spirit 
   active.
-  Healing Focus: Now works properly with Penance.
-  Improved Divine Spirit: No longer improves Divine Spirit after 
   untalenting sometimes.
-  Inner Focus: Now works properly with Mind Flay, Mind Sear, and 
   Penance.
-  Prayer of Spirit: Will no longer stack with other raid spell power 
   buffs.
-  Shadowform: Devouring Plague, Shadow Word:Pain, and Vampiric Touch 
   cast in Shadowform deal increased damage percentage equal to the 
   player’s chance to get a spell crit on their target.
-  Shadow Word:Death: The self-damage from this spell can no longer be
   reflected or redirected.
-  Vampiric Touch: The Spell power coefficient has been doubled and no
   longer triggers Replenishment when other priests cast Mind Blast.

Rogues
-  Combat Potency: Now only works with auto attacks (no more Shiv.)
-  Fan of Knives changed to be castable with no targets, further 
   improved the visual affect and it no longer plays an impact on the 
   caster.Now benefits correctly from the Find Weakness talent.Cooldown
   reduced to 10 sec.
-  Killing Spree: Instead of making the rogue untargetable, now causes 
   all players to lose targeting on the rogue and the rogue to be 
   unstoppable during its duration.
-  Riposte: Duration of this effect no longer reduced by other effects 
   that reduce disarm duration.
-  Shadow Dance: The cooldowns on Sap, Garrotte, Ambush, Cheap Shot, 
   Premeditation, Pickpocket, and Disarm Trap are no longer increased 
   while this ability is activated.

Shaman
-  Bloodthirst: Percentage of damage from attack power raised from 45% 
   to 50%.
-  Flurry: Now grants the proper number of charges when it triggers.
-  Improved Fire Nova Totem: Increases the damage done by your Fire Nova
   Totem by 10/20% and your Fire Nova totem has a 50/100% chance to stun
   all targets damaged by your Fire nova Totem for 2 sec.
-  Lava Burst: The base damage has been increased by approx. 10%.
-  Maelstrom Weapon: Tooltips corrected to correctly describe the chance
   for this talent to be triggered.
-  Riptide: The initial heal amount has been increased on ranks 3 and 4 
   and periodic healing has been increased on all ranks.
-  Stormstrike: Other shamans can no longer consume charges of your 
   Stormstrike, and each shaman can have their own stormstrike on the 
   victim.
-  Storm Reach is now called “Elemental Reach” and now includes Lava 
   Burst.
-  Thunderstorm: Mana gain has been increased to 8%.
-  Tidal Mastery: Now correctly applies its critical strike bonus to 
   Earth Shield.
-  Tidal Waves will now also proc with Riptide.

Warlocks
-  The epic ground mount is now available on the trainer at level 61,
   requiring 150 riding skill, and the non-epic mount learned.
-  Demonic Sacrifice: The buffs from this ability will now be retained
   properly when logging out or zoning.
-  Demonic Empowerment: This talent no longer gives excessive threat to
   the Warlock’s Voidwalker and is no longer on the global cooldown.
-  Demonic Tactics: Increased the critical strike bonus for both the
   Warlock and pet.
-  Destructive Reach: Now properly reduces threat on Chaos Bolt and 
   Shadowflame.
-  Drain Soul: Rank 6 now properly deals additional damage to targets 
   below 25% health.
-  Emberstorm: Increased the fire damage bonus.
-  Haunt: The cooldown has been changed to 8 sec, and refreshing the 
   Haunt will trigger the heal from the existing Haunt.This ability will
   no longer heal for incorrect amounts or fail to heal when the Haunt
   damage was the killing blow.
-  Inferno: The Infernal is now useable indoors and the tooltip has 
   been updated.
-  Master Demonologist (Felhunter) will now also reduce damage taken by 
   Holy.
-  Ritual of Doom: Now works correctly even when the Warlock already has
   a pet (dismissed the existing pet.)
-  Shadowflame: Damaged increased approx. 75%. Coefficients unchanged.
-  Shadow Embrace: Now works on ranks 1-4 and stacks properly with 
   multiple applications.
-  Shadow Mastery: Increased the shadow damage bonus.
-  Soul Link (Demonology): Increased from 15% to 20%.

Warriors
-  Armored to the Teeth: Grants only attack power(as intended) and 
   recalculates the bonus immediately upon learning any rank of the 
   talent.
-  Bladestorm: Now breaks all snares and roots on the warrior when 
   activated.
-  Bloodthirst: Cooldown reduced to 5 sec. Percentage of damage from 
   attack power raised from 45% to 50%.
-  Deep Wounds: Now works properly with Heroic Throw.
-  Heroic Throw: No longer gains increased damage from the warrior’s
   agility.
-  Improved Rend changed to 10/20%.
-  Rampage: Can now be triggered by off-hand Whirlwind damage.
-  Rend: Damage has been adjusted to be less base and more weapon based.
-  Rend: Ranks 9 and 10 now do 35% more damage when the target is above 
   75% health instead of 4 times damage when the target is enraged. 
   Sudden Death: Now has 3/6/9% chance on hit instead of 10/20/30% 
   chance on crit.
-  Titan’s Grip: Changed to 5% penalty.
-  Vigilance: Now properly transfers threat generated by heals.

Professions
-  The level requirements required to train gathering skills have been 
   removed.
-  Alchemy
   Reduced the effect of Elixir of Mongoose and Elixir of Major Agility.
-  Inscription
   Glyph of Crusader Strike: Now reduces mana cost by 20% instead of 
   increase damage on stunned and incapacitated targets.
   Glyph of Flame Shock: Now extends duration by 6 sec and prevents 
   Flame Shock from being consumed by Lava Burst.
   Glyph of Lava: Glyph of Earth Elemental removed and replaced with 
   this glyph.  This glyph increases coefficient on Lava Burst by 0.1.
   Glyph of Mind Flay: Now sets snare to 10% instead of removing it.
   Glyph of Rejuvenation: Now works correctly when the target is not 
   self.
   Glyph of Shiv: Replaced with Glyph of Vigor, which increases maximum 
   energy by an additional 10 for those with the Vigor talent.
   Glyph of Shadow: Glyph of Mind Soothe removed and replaced with this 
   glyph. This glyph increases spell power by 10% of spirit for 10 sec 
   after critting while in Shadowform.
   Glyph of Shadow Word: Pain: Increases damage done by Mind Flay when 
   SW:P is present by 10%.
   Glyph of Sinister Strike: Chance increased to 50%.
   Glyph of Souls no longer removes soul shard cost.  It instead reduces
   the mana cost of your Ritual of Souls spell by 70%.
   Glyph of Spirit of Redemption: Tooltip corrected to 4 sec. extra when
   the glyph triggers.
   Glyph of Strength of Earth: Replaced with Glyph of Lava Lash, which 
   increases the bonus from having Flametongue Weapon by 10%.
   Glyph of Trueshot Aura: Now increases Aimed Shot crit chance instead 
   of increasing attack power bonus.
   Glyph of Totem of Wrath: Replaced with Glyph of Elemental Mastery, 
   which decreases the cooldown on Elemental Mastery by 30 sec.

User Interface
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the UI & 
   Macros Forum

Items
-  The war against spelling errors continues: many items have had typos
   removed or their functionality clarified.
-  The item quality on several quest rewards was incorrect and has been
   altered.
-  The phoenix summoned by Ashes of Al’ar has had his flame trails 
   restored.
-  Guardian’s Band of Subjugation now correctly grants universal 
   haste.
-  Girdle of the Warrior Magi now has a socket bonus.
-  Some one-hand spell power weapons are now main hand only.
-  Heart of the Dragon should now provide a consistent amount of Ranged
   Attack Power.
-  Loatheb’s Shadow should now provide a consistent amount of Ranged 
   Attack Power.
-  Spirit-World Glass now correctly has a cooldown.
-  Discerning Eye of the Beast procs should now be more obvious.
-  Focusing Lenses now have a cooldown.
-  The Horseman’s Reins should again function in Dalaran.
-  Haute Club Membership Card no longer prompts players to open it.
-  The buff granted by Frenzyheart Insignia of Fury now has a correct 
   tooltip.
-  Harness of Carnal Instinct no longer has bonus armor.
-  Boots of the Protector have been brought in line with protection 
   paladin itemization changes.
-  A tooltip error in the Glyph of Sprint has been corrected.
-  Grilled Sculpin now correctly grants Ranged Attack Power.
-  Libram of Souls Redeemed should now only affect Holy Light.
-  Legacy items that had both melee and spell critical strike rating 
   have been integrated to the unified rating.
-  Held in hand books created by Inscription are now Bind on Equip 
   rather than Bind on Pickup.

Bug Fixes
-  Fixed an issue that was affecting terrain rendering on GeForce 3 and 
   4 Ti cards. Those that added the command Set fixedfunction 1 to their
   config.wtf file should remove it to avoid a decrease in performance.
-  Glyph of Rupture: The tooltip has been corrected.
-  Druid: Omen of Clarity now has a reduced chance to be triggered by 
   Hurricane.
-  Hunter: Ferocious Inspiration will now apply raid-wide, as intended.
-  Hunter Pets
   Sonic Blast (Bat): Will no longer ignore LoS. 
   Bad Attitude (Croc): Will no longer ignore the Longevity buff.
   Thunderstomp (Gorilla): Will no longer have a physical coefficient 
   instead of a magical one.
   Gore (Bore): Fixed an issue where a wrong value was being applied.
   Savage Rend: Corrected typos in the tooltip.
-  Mage: Burning Determination will now work properly.
-  Mage: Living Bomb’s “explosion effect” will now be properly 
   classified.
-  Paladin: Judgement of Wisdom: Fixed a bug allowing one copy on target
   per paladin.
-  Paladin: Judgement of Light: Fixed a bug allowing one copy on target 
   per paladin.
-  Priest: Holy Reach (Rank 2) will now increase the radius of Divine 
   Hymn properly.
-  Priest: Inner Focus will now properly increase the critical strike 
   chance of the talent Penance.
-  Rogue: Deadly Poison Rank 8 will now do less damage than Rank 9.
-  Shaman: Totem of Wrath tooltip updated to reflect that it affects all
   crit chance and indicate that it increases Spell Power (instead of 
   just damage).


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 3.0.2 (2008-10-14)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html
 
General
-  All players will have their talent points reimbursed and will have 
   access to new talents throughout their trees; this includes the 
   51-point talents.  Several new abilities have been added for all 
   classes.  Players will need to visit their class trainer to learn 
   new spells.
-  The Kirin Tor has made their move and so has Dalaran.  Please watch 
   your step around the crater that has been left behind!
-  The Barber Shop has been implemented and you can now visit one of the
   Barber Shops in the major cities to change your appearance.  Be sure 
   to get your Shave and a Haircut!
-  The all-new Achievement System has been implemented and the 
   Achievement panel can be accessed via the interface. While many 
   achievements are not retroactive, we have done our best to credit as 
   many as possible.  Gamemasters will not be able to grant achievements
   for past accomplishments.
-  Stormwind Harbor is now open for business.
-  New towers have been added outside of Orgrimmar and in Tirisfal 
   Glades.  Crews are currently at work to establish a new Zeppelin 
   route to Northrend for your travel pleasure.  Please no /spit off 
   of the towers.
-  A new entrance is now viewable in the Caverns of Time. 
-  Hit Rating, Critical Strike Rating, and Haste Rating now modify both 
   melee attacks and spells.
-  All spells and abilities that use mana will now cost a percentage of 
   the base character mana to cast.
-  All tank classes have increased threat generation.
-  Spell casting and spell channeling pushback has been changed to the 
   following:
   When casting a spell:
   The first and second hit will add .5 secs each to the cast time.
   All hits after the second will have no effect.
   When channeling a spell:
   The first and second hit reduces current duration by 25% of total 
   duration each.
   All hits after the second will have no effect.
-  Spellpower:  
   All items and effects which grant bonuses to spell damage and spell 
   healing are being consolidated into a single stat, Spellpower.  This
   stat will appear with the same values found on items which grant 
   “increased spell damage and healing” such as on typical Mage and 
   Warlock itemization. 
   For classes which do not heal, they should see no change in the 
   character sheet other than new tooltip wording. 
   Healing characters will see their bonus healing numbers on the 
   character sheet decrease, however, all healing spells have been 
   modified to receive more benefit from spellpower than they received 
   from bonus healing, with a net effect of no change to the amount 
   healed by their spells.  Some talents have had to be rebalanced to 
   accommodate this change, but the amount healed will remain roughly 
   the same.  In addition, some talents will provide only healing spell
   power.

Druids
-  Brambles (Balance): Now increases the damage done by your Treants, 
   and also damage caused from your Treants and Barkskin has a 5/10/15%
   chance to Daze the target for 3 sec. 
-  Celestial Focus (Balance): The stun proc now works with Starfall.This
   talent no longer has Wrath pushback protection, but instead increases
   your total spell haste by 1/2/3%.
-  Challenging Roar now has a 3 minute cooldown, reduced from 10 
   minutes. 
-  Control of Nature (Balance) has been removed.
-  Entangling Roots: Can now be used indoors. 
-  Faerie Fire (Feral): Now an 11-point talent, down from being a 
   21-point talent. 
-  Feral Charge (Feral) is now a 21-point talent, up from being a 
   11-point talent. 
-  Feral Charge (Feral): Can now be used in Cat form. 
-  Feral Instinct (Feral) no longer increases threat generated in Bear
   form, but now increases damage done by your Swipe ability by 
   5/10/15%. 
-  Feral Swiftness: The movement speed buff can now be used indoors.
-  Focused Starlight (Balance)is now Nature's Majesty (Balance): 
   Increases the critical strike chance of your Wrath, Starfire, 
   Starfall, Nourish, and Healing Touch spells by 2/4/6%.  
-  Force of Nature (Balance): Cooldown reduced to 2 minutes, down from
   3. 
-  Furor (Restoration): Now increases your total Intellect while in 
   Moonkin form by 2/4/6/8/10%.
-  Hurricane: No longer has a cooldown (was 1 minute). 
-  Improved Faerie Fire (Feral): Now also works with spell hit, in 
   addition to ranged and melee hit %. 
-  Improved Mark of the Wild (Restoration): Now a 2-point talent, down 
   from a 5-point talent. 
-  Improved Tranquility (Restoration): Now also reduces the cooldown of 
   your Tranquility spell by 25/50%. 
-  Mangle (Feral): Now increases the damage done by Maul in addition to 
   Shred. 
-  Moonglow (Balance): Now also works with Starfall.Moved to tier 2, up 
   from tier 5. 
-  Moonkin Form (Balance) no longer increases your attack power or 
   causes you to regenerate mana off melee attacks, but now has a chance
   to cause you to instantly regenerate 2% of your total mana every time
   you critically hit with a spell. 
-  Nature's Focus (Restoration): Now a 3 point talent, down from a 
   5-point talent. Also moved to Tier 1, up from Tier 2. Now also 
   includes Nourish, Entangling Roots, Wrath, and Cyclone.
-  Nature's Grace (Balance): Now also reduces the global cooldown of 
   your Wrath spell by 50% while in effect. 
-  Nature's Grasp (Balance): Can now be used and can proc indoors. This 
   is now a base ability at level 11 and has a 100% chance to proc. 
-  Nature's Reach (Balance): Now also reduces threat generated by 
   Balance spells by 15/30%. 
-  New Spell: Revive - Returns the spirit to the body, restoring a dead
   target to life with health and mana. Cannot be cast when in combat. 
   (Ranks 1-7 added) 
-  New Talent - Genesis (Balance): Increases the damage and healing done
    by your periodic spells by 1/2/3/4/5%.
-  New Talent - Improved Insect Swarm (Balance): Increases your damage 
   done by your Wrath spell to targets afflicted by your Insect Swarm by
   1/2/3%, and increases the critical strike chance of your Starfire 
   spell by 1/2/3% on targets afflicted by your Moonfire spell.
-  New Talent - Mother Bear (Feral): Increases the bonus attack power 
   for Bear Form and Dire Bear Form by an additional 20/40/60%, and for 
   each friendly player in your party, damage you take is reduced while 
   in Bear Form and Dire Bear Form by 1/2/3%.
-  New Talent- Protector of the Pack (Feral): Increases the bonus attack
   power for Bear Form and Dire Bear Form by an additional 20/40/60% for
   each friendly player in your party, damage taken is reduced while in 
   Bear Form and Dire Bear Form by 1/2/3%.
-  New Talent - Natural Reaction (Feral): Increases your dodge chance 
   while in Bear Form or Dire Bear Form by 2/4/6%, and you regenerate 
   1/2/3 rage everytime you dodge while in Bear Form or Dire Bear Form.
-  New Talent - Nature's Splendor (Balance): Increases the duration of 
   your Moonfire, Insect Swarm, Rejuvenation, Regrowth, Lifebloom and 
   Flourish spells by 10/20/30%.
-  Omen of Clarity (Restoration): Now a passive spell. Now also works 
   for spells (healing and damage). Proc rate is roughly 6% with a 10 
   second internal cooldown. 
-  Primal Tenacity (Feral) now reduces damage while stunned by 5/10/15%,
   and reduces the duration of fear effects by 5/10/15%. 
-  Rake: The damage for this ability has been increased.
-  Remove Curse can now be used in Tree of Life form. 
-  Soothe Animal can now be used on Dragonkin as well as Beasts. 
-  Soothe Animal is now instant cast. 
-  Subtlety (Restoration): Now a 3-point talent, down from a 5-point
   talent. Also moved to Tier 2, up from Tier 3. Also now only reduced 
   threat for Restoration spells, and reduces the chance that your 
   healing over time spells (Lifebloom, Regrowth and Rejuvenation) will
   be dispelled, rather than all Druid spells. Threat management for 
   Balance can now be found in the Balance tree, within Nature's Reach. 
-  Survival of the Fittest (Feral): Increased to 2/4/6%, up from 1/2/3%.
-  Swipe now affects targets within a range. 
-  The mana regeneration penalty when in Bear Form, Dire Bear Form and 
   Cat Form has been removed. 
-  Tranquil Spirit (Restoration) now also includes Nourish. 
-  Tree of Life (Restoration): 30% snare penalty has been removed. 
-  Tree of Life (Restoration): Can now cast Dispel Curse. 
-  Tree of Life (Restoration): You can now cast all Restoration spells 
   (Healing Touch) in the form, but Tree of Life now only reduces the 
   mana cost of your healing over time spells (Rejuvenation, Lifebloom,
   Regrowth and Flourish) by 20%. 
-  Vengeance (Balance): Now also works with Starfall. 

Hunters
-  All aspects now have a 1 second global cooldown, down from a 1.5 
   global cooldown.
-  All pet families now have one unique ability. New abilities have been
   added for families such as bears and sporebats. 
-  Stablemasters can now accommodate two additional pets. 
-  Pets now have their own trees.  These can be accessed via the talent
   panel.
-  Aimed shot mana cost has been reduced from 11% of base mana to 8%, 
   casting time reduced from 2.5 sec to instant.  Cooldown increased 
   from 6 seconds to 10 seconds and damage reduced.
-  Animal Handler (Beast Mastery): No longer increases speed while 
   mounted, but now reduces the cooldown of your Master's Call ability
   by 5/10 sec.
-  Arcane Shot: No longer dispels magic effects.
-  Aspects now no longer cost mana. 
-  Aspect of the Beast: Now increases melee attack power by 10% for the
   hunter and the hunter’s pet.The hunter can’t be tracked while using 
   this Aspect.  Only one Aspect can be active at a time.
-  Aspect of the Viper - The hunter takes on the aspect of the viper, 
   causing ranged attacks to regenerate mana but reducing total damage 
   done by 50%.  Mana is gained based on ranged weapons speed. 
   Only one Aspect can be active at a time.
-  Aspect of the Wild (Rank 4) now increases Nature resistence by 130, 
   (up from 70.)
-  Avoidance, Dash / Dive and Cobra Reflexes are now pet talents instead
   of pet skills. 
-  Bestial Swiftness is now a pet talent tree talent, and has been 
   removed from the Beast Mastery Hunter tree.
-  Bite now has no cooldown, does the same damage and costs the same 
   Focus as Claw, so works as a Focus dump. 
-  Clever Traps (Survival) has been renamed "Trap Mastery." 
-  Combat Experience (Marksmanship): Now grants 3/6% Agility, up from 
   1/2%.
-  Concussive Barrage (Marksmanship): Can now proc from Volley and 
   Multi-shot  attacks. 
-  Counterattack: Damage increased by 20%, and now also scales with 
   your Ranged Attack Power.
-  Deterrence (Survival): Cooldown reduced to 3 minutes, and now also
   increases your chance to resist spells by 60%. Now has a new spell 
   effect.
-  Disengage: This ability has been re-designed. Now leaps the Hunter
   backwards up to 13 yards. 30 second cooldown. Disengage now also only
   has one rank (rank 1).
-  Distracting Shot: This shot now "taunts" the target onto the Hunter. 
   The taunt effect will last 6 seconds. Distracting Shot now only has 
   one rank (rank 1).
-  Every hunter pet can learn Growl, Cower and either Bite or Claw 
   (never both). 
-  Focused Aim no longer affects Aimed Shot and now increases chance to 
   hit by 1/2/3 %.
-  Focused Fire (Beast Mastery): Now increases the critical strike 
   chance of your Kill Command by 10/20/30% while Kill Command is 
   active. This effect can stack up to 3 times, but diminishes for each
   charge of Kill Command.
-  Freezing Arrow now breaks on damage.
-  Freezing Trap now breaks on damage.
-  Haunt will now heal for 100%.
-  Hunter pets can now learn talents in one of three trees depending on
   family. Pets gain talent points starting at level 20 and earn an 
   extra talent point every 4 levels. 
-  If a hunter tames a pet that is more than five levels beneath their
   own level, the pet will then have their level increased to five 
   levels beneath the hunter’s own level.
-  Improved Arcane Shot (Marksmanship): Now increases the damage done by
   your Arcane Shot by 5/10/15%.
-  Improved Feign Death (Survival): This talent has been replaced with 
   Survival Tactics.
-  Improved Hunter's Mark (Marksmanship): Now a 3-point talent, and now 
   increases the amount of attack power granted by your Hunter's Mark 
   ability by 10/20/30% and reduces the mana cost of your Hunter's Mark 
   ability by 33/66/100%.
-  Improved Stings (Marksmanship): Now a 3-point talent, down from 
   5-points.
-  Kill Command: This ability now increases the damage done by your 
   pet's special abilities by 60%. Each attack will reduce the damage 
   bonus by 20%. 1 minute cooldown. 
-  Kill Shot damage slightly reduced.
-  Kindred Spirits will no longer stack with other movement enhancing 
   buffs.
-  Lock and Load now has a chance to proc periodic damage by 2/4/6% 
   (down from 5/10/15%.)
-  Loyalty, Training Points and the hunter Beast Training button no 
   longer exist. Hunter pets can now learn all skills at their level. 
   They will get new ranks automatically as they gain levels.
-  Marked for Death now increases damage done by ranged and by pets 
   special abilities by 4% on marked targets (down from 8%.)
-  Master Tactician (Survival): Chance to proc increased to 10%, up 
   from 6%.
-  Mongoose Bite: No longer requires you to dodge in order to use this 
   ability. 
-  Monster Slaying (Survival) and Humanoid Slaying (Survival) has been 
   combined into "Improved Tracking". 
-  Multi-shot mana cost has been increased slightly to 9% base mana 
   (up from 8%.)
-  New Talent - Aspect Mastery (Beast Mastery)
-  New Talent - Hunter vs. Wild (Survival): Increases you and your pet's
   attack power and ranged attack power equal to 10/20/30% of your total
   Stamina.
-  New Talent - Improved Tracking (Survival): Increases all damage done
   to targets that are being tracked 1/2/3/4/5%.
-  New Talent - Lock and Load (Survival): You have a 33/66/100% chance 
   when you trap a target and a 10/20/30% chance when you sting a target
   to cause your next 3 Arcane Shot or Explosive Shot spells to trigger
   no cooldown, cost no mana and consume no ammo.
-  New Talent - Survival Tactics (Survival): Reduces the chance your 
   Feign Death ability and all trap spells will be resisted by 2/4%, and
   reduces the cooldown of your Disengage ability by 2/4 sec.
-  New Talent - T.N.T. (Survival): Your Immolation Trap, Explosive Trap
   and Explosive Shot have a 5/10/15% to stun targets for 2 sec when 
   they deal damage, and increases the critical strike chance of your 
   Explosive Shot and Explosive Trap by 5/10/15%.
-  Pathfinding (Beast Mastery): Now also increases the movement speed
   while mounted by 5/10%.
-  Point of No Escape reduced to a 2 point talent and now affects 
   Freezing Arrow.  The critical strike chance has increased to 3/6% 
   (up from 2/4/6%.)
-  Rapid Killing (Marksmanship): This will now proc off Chimera Shot, 
   but no longer works with auto-shot.
-  Readiness (Marksmanship): Cooldown reduced to 3 minutes, down from 5 
   minutes, and has been moved to Tier 5 of the Marksmanship Tree from 
   the Survival Tree..
-  Savage Strikes (Survival): Now includes Counterattack. 
-  Scattershot has been moved from the Marksmanship Tree to Tier 3 of 
   the Survival Tree.
-  Silencing Shot (Marksmanship): This spell will now interrupt the 
   current spell being cast on the target and lock out that school for 
   3 sec if the target is immune to silence effects.
-  Spirit Bond (Beast Mastery): Also increases healing done to you 
   and your pet by 5/10%.
-  Steady Shot now uses ammo. In result, its bonus damage has been 
   slightly reduced. Players can notice a damage increase based upon
   what ammo they use. 
-  Steady Shot: Now has a 2.0 cast time, up from 1.5.
-  Surefooted (Survival) now reduces the duration of movement impairing
   effects by 16/25/50% (instead of resist % chance). Moved from tier 4 
   to tier 2 and no longer increases hit chance. 
-  Survival Instincts (Survival): This has been moved to tier-2, up from
   tier 6.
-  Survivalist (Survival): Now increases your total Stamina, instead 
   of your total Health.
-  The arming time has been reduced to 1 second, from 2 seconds for all
   traps.
-  T.N.T. has been moved from Tier 2 to Tier 4.
-  Tranquilizing Shot: Cooldown reduced to 15 seconds (down from 20), 
   and now dispels Enrage and Magic effects.
-  Trap Mastery (Survival) is now an 11-point talent talent and has been
   moved from tier 3 to tier 9 and increases the duration by 30% fo both
   Freezing Trap and Frost Trap. . 
-  Trueshot Aura - This aura is now raid-wideand now increases all 
   ranged and melee attack power by 10%. In addition, this spell now 
   only has one rank. All other ranks have been removed.
-  Wingclip: No longer does damage.

Mages
-  Arcane Blast effect duration reduced to 3 seconds, and now increases
   damage by 25/50/75% instead of reducing cast time.
-  Arcane Focus (Arcane) is now 3 ranks and increases chance to hit and
   reduces mana cost of Arcane spells by 1/2/3%. 
-  Arcane Fortitude moved to tier 2, increased to 3 ranks, now increases
   armor equal to 50/100/150% of Intellect.
-  Arcane Impact renamed Spell Impact and now affects Blast Wave, Fire 
   Blast, Cone of Cold, and Ice Lance.
-  Arcane Potency now applies when Presence of Mind is active, talent 
   prerequisite changed to Presence of Mind.
-  Arcane Subtlety now reduces the chance your spells will be dispelled
    by 15/35%, and no longer reduces the resistance of targets.
-  Arctic Reach now also affects Deep Freeze.
-  Blast Wave now knocks all affected targets back.
-  Conjured mana gems no longer disappear from your backpack after being
   logged out for more than 15 minutes. Higher ranks of Conjure Mana Gem
   will recharge an existing mana gem to maximum charges.
-  Counterspell now costs 9% of base mana.
-  Deep Freeze will no longer do damage, and will now stun the target 
   for 5 seconds. 
-  Elemental Precision moved to tier 2.
-  Empowered Arcane Missiles renamed Arcane Empowerment and no longer 
   increases mana cost. It now also increases damage caused by Arcane 
   Blast.
-  Empowered Fireball renamed to Empower Fire, reduced to 3 ranks, now 
   increases damage by 5/10/15% of spell power and now affects Frostfire
   Bolt.
-  Empowered Frostbolt reduced to 2 ranks, increases damage by 5/10% 
   of spell power and increases critical hit chance by 2/4%.
-  Evocation has had its cooldown reduced from 8 minutes to 5 minutes.
-  Flame Throwing moved to tier 3.
-  Frost Armor, Ice Armor, Mage Armor and Molten Armor are no longer
   Magic effects and cannot be dispelled. 
-  Frostbite relocated from Tier 2 to Tier 1.
-  Frost Channeling now reduces mana cost of all spells by 4/7/10%.
-  Frost Warding now increases armor and resistances of Frost/Ice Armor
   by 25/50%, now gives Frost Ward and Fire Ward a 15/30/5 chance to 
   negate damage caused and restore mana equal to damage caused by 
   the warded spell.
-  Hot Streak will now also affect Fire Blast.
-  Ice Floes renamed Cold as Ice, now reduces cooldown of Cold Snap, 
   Ice Barrier, Summon Water Elemental, and Deep Freeze by 10/20%.
-  Impact moved to tier 3, reduced to 3 ranks for 4/7/10% chance to 
   trigger, now triggers from any damaging spell (Fire, Frost or Arcane).
-  Improved Blink now also reduces mana cost by 25/50%.
-  Improved Counterspell now always silences the target for 2/4 seconds.
-  Improved Fire Blast moved to tier 1, reduced to 2 ranks, reduces the 
   cooldown by 1/2 seconds.
-  Improved Flamestrike moved to tier 2, renamed World in Flames, now 
   increases the critical hit chance of Flamestrike, Blast Wave, 
   Dragon’s Breath, Living Bomb, Blizzard, and Arcane Explosion by 
   2/4/6%.
-  Improved Frost Nova renamed Ice Floes, moved to tier 1, increased to
    3 ranks, now reduces cooldown of Frost Nova, Cone of Cold, Ice 
	Block, and Icy Veins by 7/14/20%. 
-  Improved Mana Shield has been renamed to Arcane Shielding, reduces
    mana lost per damage absorbed by 17/33%,and now also increases 
	resistances granted by Mage Armor by 25/50%.
-  Improved Scorch now increases Fire, Frost, and Arcane damage done to
   the target by 2/4/6/8/10%.
-  Incineration moved to tier 1, increases the critical hit chance of 
   Fire Blast, Scorch, Arcane Blast, and Cone of Cold by 2/4/6%.
-  Invisibility now makes the caster invisible after 3 seconds, reduced
   from 5 seconds. 
-  Living Bomb will no longer knock all targets into the air.
-  Magic Absorption reduced to 2 ranks, increases resistances by .5/1 
   point per level, and restores 1/3% of total mana on a resist.
-  Magic Attunement (Arcane) now also increases the range of your Arcane
   spells by 3/6 yards. 
-  Mana Shield now drains 1.5 mana per damage absorbed.
-  Master of Elements now affects all spell criticals.
-  Mind Mastery reduced to 3/6/9/12/15%.
-  Missile Barrage will now affect Arcane Barrage and the (R5) proc 
   chance has been adjusted from 12% to 20%.
-  Molten Shields now gives Fire Ward and Frost Ward spells a 15/30% 
   chance to reflect the warded spell.
-  Polymorph now costs 12% of base mana. 
-  Portal spells now cost 18% of base mana. 
-  Prismatic Cloak (Arcane) increased to 3 ranks for 1/2/3% and now 
   also reduces the fade time of Invisibility by 1/2/3 seconds.
-  Pyroblast cast time has been reduced to 5 seconds.
-  Remove Lesser Curse has been renamed to Remove Curse.
-  Shatter no longer has a prerequisite.
-  Slow Fall now costs 6% of base mana. 
-  Slow mana cost reduced.
-  Summoned Water Elemental's Waterbolt range increased, mana cost 
   reduced, Freeze range increased, mana cost increased.
-  Teleport spells now cost 9% of base mana. 
-  Winter's Chill reduced to 3 ranks, Frost damage spells have a 
   33/66/100% chance to trigger the effect and the effect increases 
   chance to crit with Arcane, Fire and Frost spells.

Paladins
-  Attack Power and Spell Power scaling on all Seals and Judgements 
   other than Command and Blood has been reduced.
-  All Auras now affect all party and raid members within the area of
   effect. 
-  Anticipation (Protection) moved to tier 1, now increases chance to
   dodge by 1/2/3/4/5%. 
-  Avenger's Shield (Protection) cast time reduced to .5 seconds, 
   duration increased to 10 seconds. 
-  Avenging Wrath no longer causes Forbearance, damage increase reduced
   to 20%, now increases healing done by 20%. 
-  Blessing of Freedom renamed Hand of Freedom. Only one Hand spell can 
   be on the target per paladin at any one time. Now costs 6% of base 
   mana. 
-  Blessing of Light and Greater Blessing of Light removed. Their 
   effects have been folded into all relevant abilities. 
-  Blessing of Protection renamed Hand of Protection. Only one Hand 
   spell can be on the target per paladin at any one time. All ranks now 
   cost 6% of base mana. 
-  Blessing of Sacrifice renamed Hand of Sacrifice, is now only 1 rank
   and transfers 20% of the damage taken to the caster, duration reduced
   to 12 seconds, cooldown increased to 2 minutes. Only one Hand spell
   can be on the target per paladin at any one time. Now costs 6% of 
   base mana. 
-  Blessing of Salvation renamed Hand of Salvation, now reduces total 
   threat on the target by 2% per second for 10 seconds while also 
   reducing all damage and healing done by 10%. Only one Hand spell can
   be on the target per paladin at any one time. Now costs 6% of base 
   mana. 
-  Blessing of Sanctuary reduced to 1 rank, now reduces all damage taken
   by 3% and generates rage, mana or runic power when a parry/dodge/
   block occurs.
-  Consecration now scales with attack power and spell power.
-  Conviction (Retribution) now increases critical chance with all 
   spells and melee attacks. 
-  Divine Intellect (Holy) moved to tier 2, increases total Intellect 
   by 3/6/9/12/15%. 
-  Divine Intervention cooldown reduced to 20 minutes. 
-  Divine Plea will now fall within the school of Magic and reduces 
   healing output by 20% (from 100%.)
-  Divine Protection and Divine Shield now cost 3% of base mana. 
-  Divine Protection now reduces all damage taken by 50% and increases
   time between attacks by 100%.
-  Divine Purpose (Retribution) now reduces chance to be hit by spells 
   and ranged attacks by 1/2/3%. 
-  Divine Strength (Holy) moved to tier 1 in the Protection tree. 
-  Exorcism mana cost reduced and now scales with attack power and spell
   power.
-  Eye for an Eye now reflects 10/20% damage from all critical hits.
-  Fanaticism now increases chance to critically hit by 5/10/15/20/25%.
-  Forbearance duration increased to 3 minutes.
-  Greater Blessing of Salvation removed. 
-  Hammer of Justice now costs 3% of base mana. 
-  Hammer of Wrath is now considered a Retribution spell, moved from 
   Holy, mana cost reduced,now instant cast, global cooldown increased 
   to 1.5, missile speed increased, now usable on targets below 35% 
   health and now scales with attack power and spell power. 
-  Healing Light (Holy) moved to tier 2. 
-  Holy Shield (Protection) cooldown reduced to 8 seconds, charges 
   increased to 8.
-  Holy Shock (Holy) range changed to 20/40 yards when used on 
   enemies/friends respectively, cooldown reduced to 6 seconds. 
-  Holy Wrath is now instant cast, causes a 3 second stun, cooldown 
   reduced to 30 seconds, radius reduced to 10 yards. 
-  Illumination (Holy) moved to tier 3. 
-  Improved Blessing of Might increased to 10/20/30/40/50%.
-  Improved Concentration Aura (Protection) moved to the Holy tree. 
-  Improved Concentration Aura moved from the Protection tree to tier
   4 in the Holy tree. 
-  Improved Devotion Aura (Protection) moved to tier 4, reduced to 3 
   ranks, now increases armor of Devotion Aura by 17/34/50% and 
   increases all healing done to units affected by Devotion Aura by 1/2/3%. 
-  Improved Hammer of Justice (Protection) now reduces cooldown by 
   10/20/30 secs.
-  Improved Holy Shield removed.   
-  Improved Righteous Fury (Protection) threat bonus folded into base 
   spell, talent still reduces all damage taken by 2/4/6%. 
-  Improved Sanctity Aura (Retribution) renamed Sanctified Retribution, 
   now causes all units affected by Retribution Aura to cause 2% more 
   damage. 
-  Improved Seal of Righteousness (Holy) moved to tier 1, renamed Seals 
   of the Pure, now affects Seal of Righteousness, Seal of Vengeance and
   Seal of Corruption. 
-  Improved Seal of the Crusader (Retribution) renamed Heart of the 
   Crusader and the effects now apply to all Judgement spells. 
-  Infusion of Light now reduces the cast time of Holy Light by .5 
   second/1 second (instead of 1.2.5 second /2.5 seconds.)
-  Judgement has been replaced with 3 new spells; Judgement of Light,
   Judgement of Wisdom, and Judgement of Justice.  All Judgement spells 
   are considered ranged attacks for purposes of how they hit and how 
   they critically hit. All cause damage based on attack power and spell
   power.
   Judgement of Light now heals based on the Paladin’s attack power and
   spell power, the effect can not trigger more than once ever 4 seconds.
   Judgement of Justice will no longer prevent Fear effects, but will 
   only prevent NPCs from fleeing (e.g. at low health). 
   Judgement of Wisdom now restores mana based on the Paladin’s attack
   power and spell power, the effect can not trigger more than once 
   every 4 seconds.
-  Judgements of the Pure will now last for 1 minute (up from 30 seconds.)
-  Judgements of the Wise will now grant 33% of base mana instead of 20%
   of maximum mana.
-  Lay on Hands no longer drains all mana, cooldown reduced to 20 
   minutes. 
-  One-Handed Weapon Specialization now increases damage by 2/4/6/8/10%.
-  Precision has been removed.
-  Pure of Heart (Holy) reduced to 2 ranks, now reduces duration of 
   Curse and Disease effects by 25/50%. 
-  Pursuit of Justice reduced to 2 ranks for 8/15% movement increase 
   and 1/2% less chance to be hit by spells.
-  Redoubt (Protection) moved to tier 2, reduced to 3 ranks, increases 
   block chance by 10/20/30%, now also increases block value by 
   10/20/30% at all times.
-  Repentance (Retribution) mana cost changed to 9% of base, duration 
   increased to 1 minute (10 second PvP duration), now usable against 
   Demons, Dragonkin, Giants, Humanoids and Undead. 
-  Retribution Aura damage increased and now gains damage based on Holy
   spell power. 
-  Righteous Defense no longer costs mana and the global cooldown has 
   been removed, cooldown reduced to 10 seconds.
-  Righteous Fury now increases threat caused by Holy damage by 90%. 
-  Sacred Duty now also reduces the cooldown of Divine Protection.
-  Sanctified Light (Holy) now also increases the critical chance of 
   Holy Shock. 
-  Sanctity Aura (Retribution) removed. 
-  All Seals have been reduced to 1 rank and now cost 14% of base mana.
   The duration has been increased to 2 minutes and are no longer 
   consumed when a Judgement spell is cast. The effects can be triggered
   from all weapon based special abilities.
   Seal of Blood now increases Judgement damage by 45% of weapon damage.
   Seal of Command now increases Judgement damage by 30% of weapon 
   damage, 60% on stunned targets.
   Seal of the Crusader has been removed. The effects of Judgement of 
   the Crusader have been folded into all relevant abilities. 
   Seal of Righteousness deals damage based on weapon speed plus an 
   amount based on attack power and spell power, increases Judgement 
   damage by 25%.
   Seal of Vengeance now applies its effect on every swing, causes 
   damage based on attack power and spell power, increases Judgement 
   damage by 10% per stack of the damage over time effect.
-  Shield Specialization removed, effects merged with Redoubt.
-  Spiritual Focus (Holy) moved to tier 1. 
-  Stoicism (Protection) moved to tier 2, now reduces duration of Stun 
   effects by 10/20/30% and reduces chance your spells will be resisted
   by 10/20/30%. 
-  Summon Warhorse and Summon Charger mana cost removed and no longer 
   causes a global cooldown.
-  Toughness (Protection) moved to tier 3 , now also reduces the 
   duration of movement slowing effects by 10/20/30/40/50%. 
-  Turn Undead (ranks 1 and 2) removed. Turn Evil now granted at level
   24, mana cost changed to 9% of base. 
-  Unyielding Faith (Holy) moved to tier 2. 
-  Vengeance (Retribution) now stacks up to 2 times, reduced from 3.
-  Vindication reduced to 2 ranks for 10/20% attribute reduction.

Priests
-  Absolution: This talent has swapped positions in the talent tree 
   with Improved Inner Fire.
-  Circle of Healing (Holy): Now works on any targets in the caster's
   raid, and is now a "smart" heal and chooses the lowest health targets
   to heal first within its range. Also now has a 6 second cooldown. 
   Also no longer will heal summoned Snakes from Hunter's Snake Trap. 
-  Enlightenment: Increases your total Stamina, Spirit and Spell haste 
   by 1/2/3/4/5%.
-  Focused Will (Discipline): Now increases healing effects on you by 
   3/4/5%, down from 4/7/10%. 
-  Force of Will (Discipline): This talent now increases your spell 
   damage by a flat amount, rather than increasing your spells by a %. 
   (Now increases school %, rather than selected spells damage %). In
   other words, your spell damage gained from this talent is now 
   reflected on your character sheet, rather than the skill tool-tips. 
-  Focused Power: Increases your total spell damage and healing done by
    2/4%, but no longer increases your chance to hit with Mind Blast, 
	and Mass Dispel.
-  Guardian Spirit will now heal the target 50% of their maximum health.
-  Holy Fire: Cast time reduced to to 2 seconds, down from 3.5. Damage
   increased roughly 60%. Duration for the damage over time effect 
   reduced to 7 seconds, down from 10. Holy Fire now has a 10 second 
   cooldown. 
-  Holy Nova mana cost reduced.
-  Improved Inner Fire (Discipline) - Now also increases the effect of
   Inner Fire spell by 20/40/60% (Includes the +spell power on higher
   ranks, as well as total number of charges).Moved from tier 3 to tier 
   2. 
-  Improved Power Word: Fortitude moved from tier 3 to tier 2.
-  Improved Shadow Word: Pain (Shadow) - Now increases damage done by
   your Shadow Word: Pain by 5/10%, but no longer increases the duration
   of your Shadow Word: Pain. 
-  Levitate now costs 3% of base mana. 
-  Lightwell (Holy): Cast time reduced to .5 sec, down from 1.5 sec. 
   Charges increased to 10, up from 5. Now breaks from any attack that
   hits you for 30% or more of your total health. Cooldown reduced to 3
   minutes, down from 5. 
-  Mind Control now has only one rank and costs 12% of base mana. 
-  Mind Flay can now periodically critcally hit.  The spell coefficient 
   has been increased approximately 30%.
-  Mind Soothe now has only one rank, costs 6% of base mana and has no 
   max target level. 
-  Mind Vision now costs 3% of base mana. 
-  New Talent: Improved Spirit Tap (Shadow) - Gives you a 50/100% chance
   to gain a 50% bonus to your Spirit after gaining a critical effect 
   chance from your Mind Blast or Shadow Word: Death spells. For the 
   duration, your mana will regenerate at a 25% rate while casting. 
   Lasts 8 sec. 
-  New Talent: Twin Faiths (Discipline) - Increases your damage and 
   healing by 1/2/3/4/5%. 
-  Pain Suppression (Discipline): Cooldown increased to 3 minutes, up
   from 2. 
-  Power Infusion (Discipline): Cooldown reduced to 2 minutes, down from
   3. 
-  Prayer of Mending - This spell can now critically hit.
-  Psychic Scream now costs 15% of base mana. 
-  Searing Light (Holy): Now also increases the damage of your Holy Nova
   and Penance spells. 
-  Shackle Undead now costs 9% of base mana. 
-  Shadow Focus (Shadow): Now a 3 point talent, down from 5. Now also 
   reduces the mana cost of your Shadow spells by 2/4/6%. 
-  Shadow Resilience (Shadow): Now reduces physical damage taken by 
   2/4%, but no longer reduces the chance to be critically hit by 
   spells. 
-  Shadowform (Shadow): Now has an innate 30% threat reduction. Now has
   a shapeshift UI.
-  Silence (Shadow) global cooldown removed.
-  Silent Resolve (Discipline): Now a 3 point talent, down from 5 
   points. 
-  Spirit Tap (Shadow) - Talent reduced to 3 points, down from 5. Now 
   also leads into "Improved Spirit Tap" 
-  Twisted Faith will now work when the target is affliected by Shadow 
   Word: Pain (instead of Mind Flay.)
-  Wand Specialization (Discipline) has been removed. 

Rogues
-  Aggression has been moved up 1 tier and now adds 3/6/9/12/15% damage 
   to Sinister Strike, Backstab, and Eviscerate.
-  Anesthetic Poison now also dispels one Enrage effect on the target.
-  Blade Twisting (Combat) now cause all damaging melee attacks to have
   a 10% chance to daze for 4/8 secondsmovement speed reduced by 70%, 
   also adds 5/15% dmg to Sinister Strike and Backstab.
-  Camouflage (Subtlety) reduced to 3 ranks for 5/10/15% speed and 2/4/6
   secs off the cooldown of Stealth.
-  Cloak of Shadows cooldown increased to 1.5 min.
-  Crippling Poison reduced to 1 rank, slowing movement by 70%.
-  Dagger Specialization (Combat) renamed Close Quarters Combat, moved 
   to tier 3, now increases critical strike chance with Daggers and Fist
   Weapons by 1/2/3/4/5%.
-  Damaging poisons now scale with attack power. 
-  Deadened Nerves (Assassination) reduced to 3 ranks, now reduces all 
   damage taken by 2/4/6%.
-  Deflection (Combat) reduced to 3 ranks, increasing parry by 2/4/6%.
-  Disarm Trap range increased to 20 yards, cast time reduced, now 
   requires stealth.
-  Dual Wield Specialization (Combat) moved to tier 1.
-  Elusiveness (Subtlety) moved to Tier 3, now reduces cooldown of 
   Vanish and Blind by 30/60 sec and Cloak of Shadows by 15/30 sec.
-  Energy regeneration should now be smoother.
-  Endurance (Combat) now reduces cooldown of Evasion and Sprint by 
   30/60 secs.
-  Envenom now also increases your chance to apply poisons by 25% for 
   2-6 seconds (based on combo points).
-  Evasion, Sprint and Vanish cooldowns reduced to 3 min.
-  Find Weakness (Assassination) is now a passive talent, reduced to 3 
   ranks, increases damage of offensive abilities by 3/6/9%.
-  Fist Weapon Specialization (Combat) removed.
-  Fleet Footed (Assassination) now reduces duration of movement 
   impairing effects by 25/50% rather than increasing resist chance. 
-  Focused Attacks now gives 2 energy regardless of rank.
-  Gouge is now only 1 rank and causes damage based on attack power. 
-  Improved Ambush (Subtlety) moved to Tier 4, reduced to 2 ranks for 
   25/50%.
-  Improved Eviscerate (Assassination) now increases damage by 7/14/20%.
-  Improved Expose Armor (Assassination) now reduces the energy cost by 
   5/10, no longer increases duration.
-  Improved Poisons (Assassination) now increases chance to apply 
   poisons by 5/10/15/20/25%.
-  Improved Slice and Dice (Combat) reduced to 2 ranks, increases 
   duration by 25/50%.
-  Improved Sprint (Combat) moved to Tier 4.
-  Initiative (Subtlety) moved to Tier 4, increased to 33/66/100% chance.
-  Kick is now only 1 rank and no longer causes damage.
-  Lethality (Assassination) now also affects Riposte.
-  Lightning Reflexes (Combat) moved to tier 4.
-  Mace Specialization (Combat) no longer stuns enemiesnow ignores 
   3/6/9/12/15% of target's armor.
-  Master of Deception (Subtlety) reduced to 3 ranks.
-  Mind-Numbing Poison reduced to 1 rank, slowing casting speed by 60%.
-  Murder (Assassination) moved to tier 6, increases damage by 2/4%.
-  Mutilate (Assassination) no longer requires you be behind the target.
-  Nerves of Steel (Combat) damage taken while Stunned or Feared by 
   15/30%.
-  Opportunity (Subtlety) reduced to 2 ranks for 10/20%.
-  Pick Lock and Disarm Trap no longer require Thieve's Tools.
-  Poisons skill removed. All finished poisons are available on vendors 
   rather than created by the rogue. 
-  Precision (Combat) now also increases chance to hit with poison 
   attacks by 1/2/3/4/5%.
-  Premeditation (Subtlety) duration increased to 20 seconds, cooldown 
   reduced to 20 seconds.
-  Preparation (Subtlety) no longer refreshes the cooldown of 
   Premeditation.
-  Relentless Strikes (Assassination) moved to Tier 1 Subtlety, made 5 
   ranks for 4/8/12/16/20% chance. 
-  Riposte (Combat) now slows the target's melee attacks by 20% instead
   of disarming them, awards one combo point.
-  Serrated Blades (Subtlety) moved to Tier 3. 
-  Setup (Subtlety) chance to gain a combo point increased to 
   33/66/100%. 
-  Shadowstep (Subtlety) is no longer usable while rooted.
-  Surprise Attacks (Combat) now also increases Hemorrhage damage.
-  Vanish no longer requires the reagent Flash Powder. 
-  Vigor (Assassination) moved to Tier 3.
-  Vile Poisons (Assassination) reduced to 3 ranks, now increases damage
   of poisons and Envenom by 7/14/20% and increases dispel resistance 
   by 10/20/30%. 
-  Vitality now regenerates 8/16/25% energy.
-  Wounding Poison no longer stacks, reduces healing by 50%. 

Shaman
-  All totems are now considered on the "Physical" school, and no longer
   magical spells. 
-  Anticipation (Enhancement): Now is a 3-point talent, down from a 
   5-point talent and now reduces the duration of disarm effects on you 
   by 16/25/50%.
-  Ancestral Awakening and Improved Water Shield will now affect Riptide.
-  Ancestral Knowledge (Enhancement): Now increases your Intellect by 
   2/4/6%, instead of increasing your total Mana by 2/4/6/8/10%. 
-  Call of Flame (Elemental): Now also increases the damage of your 
   Lava Burst spell by 2/4/6%. 
-  Call of Thunder (Elemental) now also increases the critical strike 
   chance of your Thunder spell. 
-  Concussion (Elemental) now increases the damage of your Thunder and 
   Lava Burst spells. 
-  Convection (Elemental) is now a 3-point talent, down from a 5-point
   talent. Now lowers the mana cost of Thunder and Lava Burst. 
-  Dual Wield Specialization will now increase the chance to hit while 
   dual wielding by an additional 1/2/3%.
-  Earth's Grasp (Elemental) is now a tier-1 talent, up from tier-2. 
-  Elemental Devastation (Elemental) is now a tier-2 talent, up from 
   tier-4. 
-  Elemental Focus (Elemental): Now also can proc off Lesser Healing 
   Wave and Healing Wave, and can be used on all healing spells. 
-  Elemental Fury (Elemental) now requires Elemental Focus as a 
   pre-requisite
-  Elemental Precision (Elemental): Chance to hit reduced to 1/2/3% 
   from 2/4/6%, but threat reduction increased to 10/20/30% up from 
   4/7/10%. 
-  Enhancing (Enhancement) Totems is now a Tier 1 talent, up from 
   Tier-2. 
-  Fire Resistance Totem will now increase fire resistance by 130 and 
   lasts for 5 minutes.
-  Flametongue Totem is now a flat spell damage totem. All ranks have
   been modified. 
-  Flametongue Weapon: Now has a passive spell damage.
-  Flurry now increases attack speed by 5/10/15/20/25% for your next 3 
   swings after dealing a critical strike.
-  Frostbrand's snare effect has been increased to 50%, up from 25%. 
-  Ghost Wolf's mana cost is now 13% base. 
-  Grace of Air Totem has been removed. (Agility has been rolled over 
   into Strength of Earth Totem)
-  Improved Fire Totems (Elemental) is now (again) Improved Fire Nova 
   Totem. It now has a 50/100% chance to stun all targets for 2 sec. 
-  Healing Grace (Restoration): Healing Way and Ancestral Fortitude are 
   now affected by the dispel resistance portion of this talent.
-  Maelstrom Weapon proc chance reduced to 3/6/9/12/15% on critical hit 
   when you deal damage with a melee weapon. Now affects chain heal.
-  Improved Lightning Shield (Enhancement) is now Improved Shields, and
   is in Tier-2. 
-  Nature’s Blessing no longer increases spell damage from Intellect, 
   and the effect has been reduced to 5/10/15% from 10/20/30%. This is 
   in result of the new spell power system. Players should notice little
   to no change in the power of the spell relevant to healing spells.
-  New ranks have been added of Water Shield, starting at level 20. 
   (Level 20, 27, 34, 41, 48, 55, 62, 69) 
-  New Spell: Earthliving Weapon - Imbue the Shaman's weapon with 
   earthen life. Increases healing done by x and each heal has a 20% 
   chance to proc Earthliving on the target, healing an additionaly over
   12 sec. Lasts 30 minutes. 
-  New Talent: Cleanse Spirit (Restoration) - Cleanse the spirit of a 
   friendly target, removing 1 poison effect, 1 disease effect, and 1
   curse effect. 
-  New Talent: Elemental Shields (Enhancement): Increases the damage 
   done by your Lightning Shield orbs by 5/10/15%, increases the amount
   of mana gained from your Mana Shield orbs by 5/10/15% and increases 
   the amount of healing done by your Earth Shield orbs by 5/10/15%. 
-  New Talent: Mental Dexterity (Enhancement) - Increases your Attack 
   Power by 33/66/100% of your Intellect. 
-  New Talent: Tidal Force(Restoration)- Increases the critical effect 
   chance of your Healing Wave, Lesser Healing Wave and Chain Heal by 
   60%. Each critical heal reduces the chance by 20% and lasts 20 
   seconds.
-  Rockbiter ranks 5 through 9 have been removed. Windfury Weapon is 
   intended to replace Rockbiter at level 30. 
-  Shapeshifting will no longer cancel Water Walking. 
-  Stoneclaw Totem: Health of the Stoneclaw totem is increased by 5% 
   of the Shaman’s total health.
-  Stoneskin Totem now increases armor instead of reducing physical 
   damage. 
-  Storm Reach (Elemental): Now also increases the radius of your 
   Thunder spell by 10/20%.
-  Stormstrike will no longer affect Fire or Frost damage.   
-  Strength of Earth Totem now also increases agility. 
-  The range of all “friendly totems” has been increased to 30 yards,
   up from 20.
-  Tidal Focus (Restoration): Now works with Earth Shield.
-  Totemic Mastery talent removed and replaced with “Tidal Force”.
-  Totem of Wrath will no last 5 minutes.
-  Tranquil Air Totem has been removed. (Threat is being addressed by 
   modifications to the base threat of players and/or "baked" into 
   tanking abilities.) 
-  Unleashed Rage is now raid wide and increases melee and ranged attack
   power within 45 yards..
-  Windfury Totem is now a flat 20% melee haste totem. All ranks have
   been modified. 
-  Windwall Totem has been removed. 
-  Wrath of Air is now a flat 10% spell haste totem. 

Warlocks
-  Aftermath (Destruction) - Now a 2-point talent, down from 5. 
-  All demon abilities and spells will automatically be learned as pets 
   gain levels. Demon Master trainers will be removed. 
-  Avoidance (Felguard): Now reduces damage taken from area of effect 
   attacks by an additional 80% and is automatically learned for the 
   Succubus, Imp, Voidwalker, and Felhunter at level 10.
-  Bane now reduces the cast time of your Haunt spell.
-  Blood Pact now works raid-wide (not just in party). 
-  Cataclysm (Destruction) - Now also increases your chance to hit with
   Destruction spells by 1% per point. 
-  Chaos Bolt now does Fire damage instead of Chaos damage.
-  Conflagrate can now only be cast on targets afflicted by Shadowflame.
-  Consume Shadows (Voidwalker): Duration reduced to 6 seconds, and 
   effect increased 66%.  Now also greatly increases all nearby allies’ 
   stealth detection while channeled.
-  Curse of Doom will now only summon a Doomguard if the target yields 
   experience or honor.
-  Curse of Recklessness will no longer prevent Fear effects, only 
   prevent NPCs from fleeing (e.g. at low health). 
-  Dark Pact: Tooltip updated to be more consistent with other similar
   effects and now restores 200% mana leeched from your summoned Demon,
   up from 100%.
-  Demon Armor - Now increases healing done by spells and effects by
   20%, but no longer has in-combat health regeneration. 
-  Demonic Circle now lasts for 6 mins.
-  Demonic Pact will no longer work on enslaved demons.
-  Demon Skin, Demon Armor and Fel Armor are no longer Magic effects and
   cannot be dispelled. 
-  Demonic Sacrifice: Succubus effect reduced to 10% increased shadow 
   damage, down from 15%.  Imp effect reduced to 10% increased fire 
   damage, down from 15%.  Felguard effect now increases Fire and Shadow
   damage, instead of just Shadow.
-  Doomguard: Health increased 20%, mana increased 24%.
-  Drain Soul will now cause four times the damage if the target is at 
   or below 25% health.
-  Everlasting Affliction will no longer affect Shadow Bolt and affects
   Haunt instead.
-  Emberstorm now reduces the cast time of your incinerate by 
   0.1/0.2/0.3/0.4/0.5 seconds.
-  Fel Armor - Now increases your spell damage equal to 30% of your 
   total Spirit, but no longer increases healing done by spells and 
   effects by 20%. 
-  Felguard: Health increased by 10%.
-  Felhunter: Paranoia and Tainted Blood have been replaced with Fel 
   Intelligence and Shadow Bite.
-  Fel Intelligence (Felhunter): Increases total Intellect and Spirit of
   party and raid members by 3%.  Lasts until cancelled.
-  Fel Stamina (Demonology) has been merged with Fel Intellect into Fel 
   Vitality. 
-  Haunt will now heal for 100%.
-  Howl of Terror now costs 15% of base mana. 
-  Infernal: Cooldown reduced to 15 minutes, down from 1 hour.  Duration
   reduced to 1 minute, down from 5 minutes+.  Health increased by 30%, 
   damage increased by 60%, and armor increased by 30%.
-  Inferno now summons an Infernal which lasts for 1 minute.
-  Imp: Health increased by 20% , Armor increased 16%, mana regeneration
   increased 200%.
-  Improved Curse of Weakness (Affliction) is now "Frailty" - Increases
   the amount of attack power reduced by your Curse of Weakness spell by
   10/20%, and increases the amount of armor reduced by your Curse of 
   Recklessness by 10/20%. 
-  Improved Enslave Demon (Demonology) is now a Tier 5 talent, up from
   Tier 4. 
-  Improved Lash of Pain (Destruction) and Improved Firebolt 
   (Destruction) have been merged into one talent, Demonic Power. 
-  Improved Shadow Bolt (Destruction) - Now increases damage by your 
   next Shadow damage spells by 3/6/9/12/15%, down from 4/8/12/16/20%. 
-  Mana Feed: Tooltip updated to be more consistent with other similar
    effects. 
-  Master Demonologist (Demonology) - Most effects have been altered. 
   Master Demonologist – Felguard (Demonology) - Now increases all 
   damage by 1/2/3/4/5%, and reduces all damage done to you by 
   1/2/3/4/5%. 
   Master Demonologist – Imp (Demonology) - Now increases Fire damage
   by 1/2/3/4/5%, and critical hit chance with Fire spells by 
   1/2/3/4/5%. 
   Master Demonologist – Succubus (Demonology) - Now increases Shadow
   damage by 1/2/3/4/5%, and critical hit chance with Shadow spells by
   1/2/3/4/5%.
-  Nether Protection has been reworked.  It now has a 10/20/30% chance 
   when you’re hit with a spell to reduce all damage by that spell 
   school by 60% for 10 seconds. 
-  New Talent: Demonic Empowerment (Demonology) - Grants your Summoned 
   Demon power for a short time. 
-  New Talent: Eradication (Affliction) - Your Corruption, Siphon Life
   and Curse of Agony ticks have a 5/10/15% chance to increase your 
   spell haste by 20% for 8 sec. This effect has a 10 second cooldown. 
-  New Talent: Improved Felhunter (Affliction): Your Felhunter gains 
   mana equal to 50/100% of the damage done by its Shadow Bite ability,
   and increases the effect of your Felhunter’s Fel Intelligence by 
   1/2%.
-  New Talent: Molten Core (Destruction) - Your Shadow spells and damage
   over time effects have a 5/10/15% chance to increase the damage of 
   your Fire spells by 10% for 6 sec. 
-  Pyroclasm (Destruction) - Now also includes Conflagrate. 
-  Rain of Fire (Doomguard): A bug has been fixed which caused each 
   tick of Rain of Fire to consume its mana cost.
-  Ritual of Souls: Charges increased to 25, up from 10.
-  Shadow Bite (Felhunter): Deals Shadow damage plus an additional 5% 
   Shadow damage over time effect on the target. 6 second cooldown.
-  Shadowfury (Destruction) - Can now be cast while moving. Stun 
   duration increased to 3 seconds, up from 2. 
-  Soul Link (Demonology) is now an 11-point talent (used to be a 
   31-point talent), but the 5% bonus damage from this talent has been 
   removed. In addition, the damage absorbed by Soul Link is now 15%, 
   down from 20%. 
-  Soul Siphon (Affliction): Now also increases the damage of your Drain
   Soul. 
-  Soulstone now generates a log entry indicating who casted and 
   received a soulstone.
-  Spell Lock (Felhunter) global cooldown removed.
-  Succubus: Health increased by 20%, armor increased 22%.
-  Summon Dreadsteed/Felsteed: Mana cost removed, global cooldown 
   removed.
-  Suppression (Affliction) is now a 3-point talent, down from 5. Now 
   increases your chance to hit with Affliction spells by 1/2/3%, down 
   from 1/2/3/4/5%. 
-  Unstable Affliction (Affliction): Silence effect reduced to 3 
   seconds, down from 5. 
-  Voidwalker: Health increased by 20%, Damage increased by 16%.  
   The amount of attack power the Voidwalker gains from its master’s 
   spell damage has been increased by 45%.

Warriors
-  Armored to the Teeth now increases attack power by 3 for every 180 
   Armor value.
-  Anticipation (Protection) now increases chance to dodge by 
   1/2/3/4/5%, moved to tier 2. 
-  Battle Shout attack power has been slightly decreased.
-  Berserker Rage is now usable in all stances.
-  Blood Craze (Fury) now regenerates 2/4/6% of total health over 6 
   seconds.
-  Blood Frenzy (Arms) moved to Tier 9, now increases physical damage 
   caused by 1/2%.
-  Bloodthirst (Fury) now restores health based on a % of total health.
-  Challenging Shout cooldown reduced to 3 minutes.
-  Concussion Blow (Protection) now causes damage based on attack power.   
-  Death Wish (Fury) no longer makes you immune to Fear effects. 
-  Death Wish and Sweeping Strikes have swapped locations in their 
   respective talent trees. 
-  Deep Wounds (Arms) now requires Impale, causes 16/32/48% of weapon 
   damage over 6 seconds.
-  Defensive Stance now increases threat by 45%. 
-  Defiance (Protection) removed, replaced by Incite and moved to a new
   location on tier 2.
-  Disarm rage cost reduced to 15.   
-  Enrage (Fury) now increases damage done by 3/6/9/12/15%, limitation 
   on number of attacks removed.
-  Hamstring now only has one rank and no longer causes damage.
-  Impale (Arms) moved to Tier 3, no longer requires Deep Wounds.
-  Improved Berserker Rage (Fury) now generates 10/20 rage. 
-  Improved Bloodrage (Protection) now increases rage generation of both
   the instant and over-time effects by 25/50%. 
-  Improved Charge (Arms) now generates 5/10 rage.
-  Improved Defensive Stance (Protection) reduced to 2 ranks, now 
   reduces spell damage taken by 3/6% and any block/parry/dodge has a 
   50/100% chance to enrage the warrior causing 5/10% more damage for 
   12 sec.
-  Improved Disarm (Protection) reduced to 2 ranks, now reduces the 
   cooldown of Disarm by 10/20 sec and increases damage taken by 
   disarmed targets by 5/10%.
-  Improved Disciplines (Arms) removed.
-  Improved Mortal Strike (Arms) now increases damage by 2/4/6/8/10%, no
   longer reduces cooldown.
-  Improved Rend (Arms) reduced to 2 ranks for 25/50%.
-  Improved Revenge (Protection) now increases damage Revenge causes by
   10/20% and gives a 25/50% chance to stun.
-  Improved Shield Bash (Protection) now also increases the damage of 
   your Shield Slam ability by 5/10%.
-  Improved Shield Block (Protection) now has 2 ranks and reduces 
   cooldown of Shield Block by 5/10 secs. It no longer increases the 
   number of blocks. 
-  Improved Shield Wall will now increases the damage reduction by an 
   additional 5/10% and reduces cooldown by 30/60 seconds.
-  Improved Slam (Fury) moved to Arms.
-  Improved Sunder Armor (Protection) renamed Puncture ,reduced to 2 
   ranks for 1/2 rage cost reduction.
-  Improved Taunt (Protection) removed, effect made baseline.
-  Improved Whirlwind (Fury) now increases damage of Whirlwind by 
   10/20%, no longer reduces cooldown.
-  Iron Will (Arms) now has only 3 ranks, reducing the duration of Stun
   and Charm effects by 10/20/30%. 
-  Last Stand (Protection) cooldown reduced to 5 minutes. 
-  Mace Specialization (Arms) now ignores 3/6/9/12/15% of target's armor.
-  Mocking Blow now only has one rank and causes weapon damage, cooldown
   reduced to 1 min and can now be used in Defensive Stance. 
-  Overpower now only has one rank and no longer causes any bonus damage
  (i.e. weapon damage only). 
-  Poleaxe Specialization (Arms) now also increases critical damage done
   by Axes and Polearms by 1/2/3/4/5%.
-  Precision (Fury) moved to Tier 5.   
-  Pummel now only has one rank and no longer causes damage.
-  Rampage now causes all party and raid members within 20 yards of the 
   Warrior to go on a rampage, increasing melee critical hit chance by 
   5% for 10 seconds when the warrior scores a melee critical.
-  Recklessness now increases the critical hit chance of the next 3 
   special ability attacks by 100%, lasts 12 seconds, cooldown reduced
   to 5 minutes.
-  Retaliation duration reduced to 12 seconds, charges reduced to 12, 
   cooldown reduced to 5 minutes. 
-  Revenge damage increased.
-  Shield Bash now only has one rank and will cause damage based on a
    % of AP. 
-  Shield Block now increases chance to block and amount blocked by 
   100% for 10 seconds. Cooldown increased to 60 seconds, rage cost 
   reduced. 
-  Shield Slam is now available to all warriors, starting at level 40 
   and damage slightly increased.. 
-  Shield Specialization (Protection) moved to Tier 1, now increases 
   rage by 2 on a successful block.
-  Shield Wall now reduces all damage taken by 50% for 12 seconds, 
   cooldown reduced to 5 minutes.
-  Slam now suspends the weapon swing timer rather than resetting it.
-  Sword and Board now has a chance to proc from Revenge.
-  Sword Specialization (Arms) can no longer trigger more than once
   per 6 seconds.
-  Taunt cooldown reduced to 8 sec.
-  Thunder Clap damage increased, cooldown increased , will now affect 
   all targets within a range..
-  Toughness (Protection) moved to tier 3 now also reduces the duration 
   of movement slowing effects by 10/20/30/40/50%.
-  Vigilance now transfers 10% of target threat to the warrior.

PvP
-  Many new items are available for purchase from the honor vendors.
-  Arenas
   Two new Arenas have been added; the Ogrimmar Arena and the Dalaran 
   Arena can now be accessed.
   Buffs that have 30 seconds or less remaining will be removed once the
   game starts. However, the mage spell “Invisibility” is not affected 
   by this change.
   
Professions
-  New Profession: Inscription is available to train up to 375.
-  Enchantment
   The Surefooted enchantment now provides additional critical strike 
   rating instead of root and snare resistance.

Dungeons and Raids   
-  The Sunwell Plateau, Black Temple, and Serpentshrine Cavern Raid 
   dungeons have all had their mobs and bosses adjusted and now have 
   less health points.
-  Ahn’Qiraj
   Mounting is now permitted in Ahn’Qiraj
   The Black Qiraji Resonating Crystal is now a normal mount.
     
User Interface
-  New Calendar feature: Players will be able to access the new Calendar
   feature by clicking on the new icon located in the top right corner
   of their mini map. The calendar will track in game events, allow raid
   scheduling, and more.
-  New Vanity Pet and Mount changes: Players will now be able to access
   their non-combat pets and mounts by clicking on the pets tab in the
   Character Info panel.  These pets and mounts will be now learnable 
   much like spells or abilities.  Once a vanity pet or mount is 
   learned, the icon will disappear from within a player’s inventory 
   and reappear in the appropriate tab under the pet tab under Character
   Info. Say goodbye to your vanity pets and mounts taking up bag and 
   bank slots!
   Lost pets and mounts (one time quest rewards) can be recovered by 
   visiting a stablemaster.
-  A new Agro Warning is now available and currently functioning in 
   dungeons.
-  Focus Frame is now available.  Players will be able to right click 
   on any unit frame and select “Set Focus”.  The focus frame will only 
   display when the focus is set.  Players may also set a “Focus Cast 
   Key” in the options/combat panel that can be bound to shift, alt, or 
   ctrl.  When holding the focus cast key and triggering an action, the
   action will be performed on your focus and not on your target.
-  Lost tabards (one time quest rewards) may now be restored by visiting
   a tabard vendor.
-  Lost keys (one time quest rewards) may now be restored by visiting a 
   blacksmith.
-  Error messages should play less frequently.
-  Tradeskills can now be linked by shift-clicking the tradeskill icon.
-  Quests can be shared with party members at any distance.
-  Quests can be shared with party members by linking the quest into 
   party chat.
-  Quests can be shared in raids but not battlegrounds.
-  Randomized Daily quests may now be shared, but only on the same day 
   as the quest is given.
-  A 5 minute timer will appear over the player’s unit frame showing the
   countdown until your PvP flag is cleared.
-  The /cower emote now has an animation.
-  Macros and key bindings are now saved server-side so there is no 
   longer a need to reconfigure them when logging in using another 
   computer.
-  Shift-clicking to loot mail: You can now hold Shift and click on mail
   in your inbox to automatically loot any items and gold without 
   opening the mail.  This default behavior can be changed via Auto Loot
   Mail in the Interface Options (Controls).
-  Combat Log Changes:
   The combat log now differentiates between a spell failure due to 
   resistance and spell failure due to missing the target.  Where once 
   both events reported as a resist; a spell missing the target is now
   reported as a miss.
   Overhealing is now reported in the combat log.
   When a source of damage is entirely prevented (by a shield block, a 
   full resist, or a damage shield like Power Word:Shield, the prevented
   amount will now be displayed.
-  V-key color is now available.  Classes will now be identified with 
   the appropriate color while the V-key option is engaged.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the UI & 
   Macros Forum- 
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&forumId=11114

Items
-  Druids and Shaman can now use items while shapeshifted.
-  The Abyss Shard has been changed to grant a passive 15 stamina bonus,
   but no longer removes the soul shard requirement from casting a 
   voidwalker.
-  Devilsaur Eye now increases your pet’s attack power for a short 
   duration instead of increasing its critical strike chance.  It also 
   provides a small amount of passive Agility.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.4.3 (2008-07-15)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The latest patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/patchnotes/

The latest test realm patch notes can always be found at 
http://www.wow-europe.com/en/info/underdev/testrealm.html

General
-  Dispel effects will no longer attempt to remove effects that have 
   100% dispel resistance.
-  Parry Rating, Defense Rating, and Block Rating: Low-level players 
   will now convert these ratings into their corresponding defensive 
   stats at the same rate as level 34 players.
-  Haris Pilton has launched a new line of bags and jewelry.  Check her
   out in the World’s End Tavern!
-  Mounts at 30?! Yes, it’s true: Apprentice Riding and mounts are now
   available at level 30.  Training costs 35 gold.
-  Blood Elf flightmasters outside of Silvermoon City and Tranquillien 
   have traded their bats in for glorious fire-breathing dragonhawks.
-  Alcohol cooldowns have been rolled into Drinks: All 10-second 
   cooldowns have been removed and replaced with the 1-second Drink 
   cooldown. 
-  Numerous flying non-combat pets have had their flight height modified 
   to no longer skim along the ground: captured firefly, dragonhawk 
   hatchlings, moths, owls, parrots, phoenix hatchling, spirit of 
   summer, sprite darter, and tiny sporebat.
-  Nether Ray Fry (a non-combat pet) is now available from the Skyguard
   Quartermaster
-  Equipping an item will now cancel any spell cast currently in 
   progress.
-  Placing an item in your bank will now cancel any spell cast currently
   in progress if the spell was cast by that item.
-  When a stun wears off, the creature that was stunned will prefer the 
   last target with the highest threat, versus the current target.

Druids
-  Barkskin: The cost of this spell is now reduced by Tree of Life Form.

Hunters
-  Growl: Pets will no longer generate additional threat from this 
   ability based on attack power buffs cast on them.  Attack power buffs
   on their master will still indirectly increase the threat generated 
   by the pet’s Growl.
-  Pet Aggro: Pets will no longer generate threat immediately from being
   summoned.

Mages
-  Frost Armor, Ice Armor, Mage Armor, and Molten Armor are no longer 
   Magic effects and cannot be dispelled.

Paladins
-  Greater Blessing of Light Rank 1: This spell will no longer overwrite
   Greater Blessing of Light Rank 2.
-  Summon Warhorse is now available at level 30.

Priests
-  Mind Vision: This effect will now be cancelled immediately on targets
   who use an Invisibility Potion or Gnomish Cloaking Device.
-  Spiritual Healing: Ranks 2-5 of this talent will no longer prevent 
   refreshing Prayer of Mending.

Rogues
-  Cheat Death: This talent has been rebalanced significantly. Killing
   blows are no longer 100% absorbed. If the Rogue is below 10% health,
   the killing blow is still completely absorbed; if the Rogue is over
   10% health, enough damage will be absorbed to reduce the Rogue’s 
   health down to 10%.  For the following 3 seconds, damage is not 
   always reduced by 90%; it is now reduced by a maximum of 90%, 
   depending on how much resilience the Rogue has. The damage reduction
   will be four times the damage reduction resilience causes against 
   critical strikes.
-  Sinister Calling now increases damage to Backstab and Hemorrhage by 
   1/2/3/4/5%(down from 2/4/6/8/10% .)

Shaman
-  Earth Elemental: This pet will now leash back to its totem when 
   pulled beyond 50 yards away.
-  Lightning Overload: This talent will no longer do excessive damage
   when used with Lightning Bolt Ranks 2-10.

Warlocks
-  Curse of Shadows: This spell has been removed.
-  Curse of Elements: This spell now applies to Arcane and Shadow 
   damage, as well as Frost and Fire.
-  Demon Skin, Demon Armor, and Fel Armor are no longer Magic effects 
   and cannot be dispelled.
-  Health Funnel: This ability will now cancel channeling when the 
   target pet is Banished.
-  Ritual of Summoning: The mana cost of this spell will now be properly
   deducted when cast.
-  Summon Felsteed is now available at level 30.

Warriors
-  Revenge: Ranks 1-5 of this ability now have damage ranges instead of
   fixed damage values (like ranks 6-8.)
   
PvP
-  The time available to accept the option to “Enter Battle” for a 
   battleground has been reduced to 1 minute and 20 seconds (previously 
   2 minutes) in order ot give each side more time to get a full 
   complement of players before the battle begins.
-  The Warsong Gulch flag can no longer be picked up at the same time as
   a flag is capped.
-  Rocket Boots Xtreme and Rocket Boots Xtreme Lite can no longer be 
   used in the arena. These no longer have a failure chance.
-  Zoning into an instance on a PvE realm will now drop your PvP flag.
   
Professions
-  Alchemy
   Philosopher’s Stone now requires 200 Alchemy.
-  Cooking
   Juicy Bear Burgers now correctly increase healing as well as spell 
   damage.
-  Jewelcrafting
   Activated beneficial effects from jewelcrafting trinkets can no 
   longer be dispelled.
-  Mining
   Green quality gems can be found in mining nodes again. The drop 
   rate of blue gems from mining nodes remains unchanged.
-  Tailoring
   Removed the cooldown from regular Mooncloth.
   Herb bags can now hold Un’goro Soil and Evergreen Pouches.
   Mycah of Sporeggar has discovered how to create 28 slot herb bags.
   New Tailoring patterns are available from Haughty Modiste in 
   Steamwheedle Port, Tanaris: Haliscan Jacket and Haliscan Pantaloons.

Quests
-  Bhag’thera now spawns at a normal quest spawn rate.
-  For the quests, Intercepting the Mana Cells and Maintaining the 
   Sunwell Portal, phased characters will not be able to see non-phased
   character AoE effects and vice-versa.
-  For the quests, Intercepting the Mana Cells and Maintaining the 
   Sunwell Portal, pets gaining/losing phase status will now properly 
   break off combat from unphased/phased opponents.

Dungeons and Raids
-  Players can now be summoned to raid instances from heroic dungeons.
-  Magister’s Terrace
   The Stun component to the Sunblade Mage Guard Glaive Throw has been 
   removed and the Bounce range reduced.
   Vexallus and Kael’thas are now tauntable in Heroic mode.
   Vexallus’ damage caused by Pure Energy has been decreased.
   Kael’thas’ Arcane Sphere has had its visual size increased. His 
   Arcane Sphere attack has had its range decreased and the 
   damage/second of Phase two on Normal mode has been decreased. (Heroic
   mode remains unchanged.)
   Sunblade Warlocks have had their damage reduced slightly.
   Fel Crystals in the Selin Fireheart encounter have had their health
   reduced slightly.
   Warlord Salaris and Kagani Nightstrike have had their damage output
   reduced slightly.
-  Sunwell Plateau
   Creatures in the area around Grand Warlock Alythess and Lady 
   Sacrolash will no longer spawn while the twins are in combat.
   M’uru, Entropius, Shadowsword Berserkers, and Shadowsword Fury Mages 
   have all had their health decreased.
   Kil’jaeden Encounter
   Nether Protection will now correctly trigger from Kil’jaeden’s Shield
   Orb Shadow Bolts.
   Vanish now correctly wipes threat on Kil’jaeden.
   Sinister Reflections are now interruptible.
   Sinister Reflections on Hunters now use normal Wing Clip instead of 
   Improved Wing Clip.
   Kil’jaeden will now wait slightly longer before casting Flame Darts 
   after casting Darkness of a Thousand Souls.

Items
-  Bow of the Verdant Keeper’s Aim: This item’s triggered effect no 
   longer breaks the effect of Scatter Shot.
-  Brutal Gladiator’s Pummeler has had its Stamina value increased to 
   the appropriate value.
-  Clockwork Robot Bots fight amongst themselves again...without 
   attacking people in the arena.  Well...they’ll blow up other Bots in 
   the arena, but you know what we mean.
-  The Eredar Twins will now always award the same items(including bonus
   items) regardless of which order they are killed in.
-  Invisibility Potions: These potions now are on the same cooldown as 
   other combat consumable potions (such as mana potions.)
-  Pendant of the Violet Eye: This item will again work correctly with 
   Holy Light and Flash of Light.
-  Shattered Sun Pendant of Acumen: The triggered effect from this Item
   can now occur on periodic damage ticks.
-  Thori’dal, the Star’s Fury is now Unique as intended.
-  Vengeful Gladiator’s Baton of Light: This item now appears in the 
   correct position on the vendor list.

User Interface
-  The help interface has been simplified dramatically. Players will
   no longer be required to select a category when opening a GM ticket.
   In addition, players can use the "Talk to a GM" button to fill out 
   a ticket that requires a GM response or the "Report Issue" button to
   fill out a ticket that does not require a GM response.
-  Target buff/debuff timers that appear when you cast a spell are now
   more visible.
-  Time Management features have been implemented! These features 
   include an alarm clock, stopwatch, and viewing your computer’s local 
   time.
-  The new stopwatch feature can be accessed via the /stopwatch, /sw, 
   or /timer slash commands. Inputting a time into the slash command will
   make the stopwatch count down. For example, /stopwatch 1:0:0 will 
   make the stopwatch count down from an hour, /stopwatch 1:30 will make
   it count down from 1 minute, 30 seconds, and /stopwatch 30 will make
   it count down from 30 seconds.
-  Added the following macro commands: /targetenemyplayer, 
   /targetfriendplayer.
-  Added key bindings for tab targeting players.
-  Ctrl-Tab and other target nearest friend functions will no longer 
   target you.
-  Targeting using /target will prefer live targets over dead ones.
-  You can no longer click the minimap to cast ground targeted spells.
-  Invisible players with Hunter’s Mark can see the hunter that put the 
   mark on them.
-  Vendor items now show their Duration in Inventory.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the UI & 
   Macros Forum. 
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&forumId=11114
   
World Environment
-  Winterspring Ice Thistle Matriarchs and Patriarchs may now drop Thick
   Yeti Fur.
-  Skinning any Winterspring Ice Thistle yetis may now result in Thick 
   Yeti Fur.
-  Increased the drop rate of Pristine Yeti Horns from Winterspring Ice
   Thistle Matriarchs and Patriarchs.
-  Young Sporebats and Greater Sporebats in Zangarmarsh now drop 
   Sporebat Eyes for the quest Gathering the Reagents.
-  Blacksmithing Supplies vendor and repairer, Blazzle, in Area 52 is 
   now next to the forge and anvil outside the inn.
-  Banker Meeda, in Area 52 is now in the...well...the bank, along with
   a guild vault and guards. The other three Area 52 bankers are still 
   located in the auction-house-turned-bank.
-  Wastewander Bandits and Rogues should be more plentiful in the 
   northern parts of Tanaris.

Bug Fixes
-  The mage spell, Counterspell now shows in the combat log.
-  Gan’arg Analyzers will no longer occasionally become friendly to 
   players. 
-  Talented abilities that cost a percentage of base mana will no longer
   display an incorrect mana cost when inspected by a player of a 
   different class or level.
-  Guild leaders should now be able to properly promote a new guild 
   leader regardless of their range.
-  Druids: Mangle will no longer incorrectly indicate a 100-yard range
   on the tooltip.
-  Hunters: Using an instant ability after Steady Shot will no longer
   lock out auto shot.
-  Hunter Snake Trap will no longer break players out of stealth if the
   snakes pass near the stealthed character.
-  Hunters: Concussive shot will now properly have a chance to proc Bow
   of Searing Arrows.
-  Hunters: Scare Beast will now be correctly limited to one target and 
   has had its tooltip updated to display the proper cast time of 1.5 
   seconds.
-  Paladins: Righteous Defense will now properly check for range when a 
   mob is selected.
-  Rogues: The talent Heightened Senses, Rank 1 and Rank 2 will now 
   affect attacks from wands.
-  Warlocks: The heal aspect of felhunter Devour Magic will now display 
   in the Combat Log.
-  Warlocks: The Succubus will now behave properly while under the 
   effects of Lesser Invisibility.
-  Warlocks: Demonic Sacrifice: This ability will now interact correctly
   with the Spirit Guide resurrection system in battlegrounds. A 
   sacrificed pet will not be resummoned on death.  Warlocks will still 
   be able to resurrect with the pet they last summoned (non-sacrificed 
   pets), even if it has since died.
-  Using Jewelcrafting figurines will no longer cause scrolling combat 
   text to appear twice.
-  Fixed an issue in which shadows were not appearing properly for users
   with GF4 video chipsets in Open GL mode.
-  Corrected an issue in which users with Creative X-FI sound cards 
   would sometimes here a slight popping noise when running.
-  Players will now correctly receive a Battleground Mark message for 
   the marks that are received at the end of a battle.
-  Corrected an issue where the initial trigger or activation sounds for
   Immolation Trap and Explosive Trap could not be heard by some players.
-  Smelt Hardened Khorium will now properly require a forge instead of 
   an anvil and hammer.
-  Hardened Khorium Bars can now be placed properly into Mining bags.
-  Corrected a typo in the tooltip for the Druid spell Rip (Rank 4).
-  Looting a Nightmare Vine will now properly no longer apply poison 
   when the node is looted.
-  The Figurine- Seaspray Albatross ability will now properly restore 
   the correct amount of mana.
-  First Aid bandages can no longer be applied to a player with the 
   Recently Bandaged debuff.  An error message of, "Could not activate
   more than one bandage" will be displayed.
-  Corrected the tooltips to read properly for the flight paths from 
   The Stormspire, Toshley’s Station, Blade’s Edge, and Area 52.
-  The flight from Zul’Aman, Ghostlands to Sun’s Reach Harbor, Isle of 
   Quel’Danas and the flight cost from Emerald Sanctuary, Felwood to 
   Astranaar, Ashenvale will now cost the correct amount of money.
-  Greater Elementals summoned by a shaman will now properly have a 
   combat log entry.
-  Players will no longer become stuck on the Nimboya’s Laden Pike when 
   driving it into the ground.
-  The quest, "Going Going, Guano!" will now have a more consistent 
   level requirement for the dungeon.
-  The quest, "Into The Scarlet Monastery" is now available to players
   of the appropriate level for the instance.
-  Blueleaf Tubers can now be properly looted.
-  The quest turn-ins for the Ahn’Qiraj war effort now give the 
   appropriate amount of credit for each successful quest turn-in.
-  Cloak of Shadows will now properly remove the curse Shrink.
-  Nightbane will no longer become unresponsive and unkillable during 
   his air phase.
-  Several items sold by the Consortium reputation vendor Paulsta’ats 
   are now bind on pick-up: Formula: Enchant Weapon- Major Striking, 
   Design: Delicate Blood Garnet, Design: Shifting Shadow Draenite, 
   Design: Lustrous Azure Moonstone, Design: Thick Golden Draenite.
-  It is no longer possible to delete a character that is an arena team
   captain without first promoting another player to captain.
-  Taunts will now properly stick when a target is stunned while being 
   taunted.
-  Taking the Druid flight path from Moonglade will no longer dispel 
   buffs.
-  Players who die on the Isle of Quel’Danas and release their spirit 
   will no longer be sent to the graveyard in Eversong Woods.
-  Disabling some subtypes under the Combat Log Message Types in the 
   Combat Log Config menu will no longer cause main Message Types to be 
   disabled.
-  Changes on the Desktop gamma options will now be properly discarded 
   when canceled.
-  A message will now appear in the combat log if a debuff is removed by
   normal melee attacks.
-  Moving a quiver from one container slot to an empty container slot 
   will no longer reset the ranged attack speed.
-  Fixed an issue where players could have two minimap tracking types 
   active at the same time.
-  Corpses with money on them will now be able to be looted even when 
   all party members opt to pass on loot.
-  Fixed an issue where ravager pets had all available pet skills.
-  Players will no longer receive an error message while receiving money
   and attempting to send mail to another player.
-  It is no longer possible to be in a guild without a Guildmaster.
-  Pets will now properly attack mobs when out of phase with the real 
   world.
-  Players who have the Apprentice and Journeyman Riding skills trained 
   already will no longer show these as available to train despite 
   having the higher riding skill.
-  It is no longer possible to dispel Shattered Sun Pendant buffs.
-  Passive pets will no longer attack due to AoE taunt spells.


   
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.4.2 (2008-05-13)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Druids
-  Talent: Primal Fury (Rank 2) will now be properly unlearned when it 
   is untalented.

Hunters
-  Aspect of the Viper: This ability now grants an additional amount of 
   mana each 5 seconds equal to 35% of the hunter’s level.
-  Boar Charge: This ability will no longer make Growl cast immediately 
   after it generates excessive threat.
-  The pet ability Growl will no longer scale with pet Attack Power and 
   now scales with the hunter’s Attack Power.
-  Dire Ravens in Blade’s Edge Mountains are now tameable.
-  Scare Beast: The range on this spell has been increased to 30 yards 
   and it is now instant cast.
-  Tamed Drywallow Snappers now will know Bite 5 (instead of Claw 5).
  
Mages
-  Talent: Improved Blink (Arcane) now reduces chance to be hit by 
   13/25% and the duration of Rank 1 has been increased to 4 seconds.
-  Completing the quest “Arcane Refreshment” will now properly teach the
   spell Conjure Water (Rank 7).
-  Polymorph: Mounted creatures will no longer remain mounted while 
   polymorphed.
-  Mage Armor no longer reduces the duration of beneficial magic buffs.
-  Molten Armor will now do damage while a damage absorption shield is 
   active.
-  New Teleport/Portal: Theramore and Teleport/Portal:Stonard spells are
   available at portal trainers in their respective locations.  You must
   be level 35 to learn these new spells.

Paladins
-  Flash of Light and Holy Light will now work properly with 
   castsequence macros.
-  Seal of the Crusader: This ability now increases the damage dealt by 
   Crusader Strike by 40%.
-  Talent: Precision (Ranks 1-3) will no longer improperly display 
   daggers and staves as a weapon class in the tooltip.
-  Paladins that already have Apprentice Riding skill can now properly 
   learn Summon Warhorse from the trainer.

Priests
-  Fear Ward will no longer be consumed while under the effects of 
   cyclone.
-  Mana Burn: This spell can no longer trigger effects that require the 
   target to be struck with a critical hit.
-  Power Word: Shield now has the correct sound associated with it and 
   can no longer be heard from large distances.
-  Talent: Power Infusion will now consume the correct amount of mana 
   when cast on yourself.

Rogues
-  Ability: Blade Flurry:  This ability can no longer hit critters as 
   its secondary targets and will now use a proper range calculation for
   all secondary targets.
-  Talent: Mutilate (Assassination) will no longer incorrectly appear 
   multiple times in the combat log when used.

Shaman
-  Ability: Frostbrand Weapon: Rank 6 damage has been increased very 
   slightly.

Warlocks
-  Drain Soul: Channeling of this spell will now always stop when a 
   player target dies.
-  Pets: Using a sacrifice effect to kill your own pet will no longer 
   trigger effects that should only occur when killing an enemy.

Warriors
-  Sweeping Strikes: This ability can no longer hit critters as its 
   secondary targets and will now use a proper range calculation for all
   secondary targets.

PvP
-  Arenas
   If a character’s personal rating is more than 150 points below the 
   team rating, they will earn points based on their personal rating 
   instead of the team rating.
   If the average personal rating of the players queuing for a game is 
   more than 150 points below the team’s rating, the team will be queued
   against an opponent matching or similar to the average personal 
   rating.
   
Professions
-  All 23-hour profession cooldowns are now 20-hour cooldowns.
-  All 4-day cooldowns are now 3 days, 20 hours.
-  Enchanting
   Removed the cooldown from Void Shatter.
   Void Shatter recipe now correctly requires 375 enchanting.
-  Engineering
   The Engineering supply item Delicate Copper Wire will now properly 
   fit into engineering bags.
-  Jewelcrafting
   Brilliant Glass no longer requires a forge.
   Brilliant Glass now has a small chance to make an epic gem.
   Quick Dawnstone, Reckless noble Topaz, Forceful Talasite are now all 
   available at the Quel’danas gem vendor.
-  Leatherworking
   Completing the quest “The Journey Has Just Begun” will now properly 
   teach how to make an Onyxia Scale Cloak.
   Greatly reduced the reagent cost for Glove Reinforcements. Also 
   reduced the skill gain range slightly.

Quests
-  The categories for the quests, “Wanted: Sisters of Torment” and 
   “Wanted: The Signet Ring of Prince Kael’thas” have been fixed to now 
   properly read as Magister’s Terrace.
-  The Shadowy Disguise will no longer be applied to druids while they 
   are in Moonkin or Tree of Life form for the Quests, “Who Are They?”
-  Jailor Eston and Jailor Marlgen for the quest, “The Rescue in 
   Hillsbrad” should now respawn more frequently.

Dungeons and Raids
-  Black Temple
   Illidan will no longer despawn if a raid group wipes during his death
   speech.
-  Karazhan
   Nightbane’s Charred Earth ability will now properly deal Fire damage.
-  Magister’s Terrace
   Vexallus is no longer immune to taunt on Normal difficulty.
   Kael’thas is no longer immune to taunt on Normal difficulty.
   Wretched Skulkers, Wretched Husks, and Wretched Bruisers will now 
   reset properly.
   Sunblade Imps will now reset properly.
   The doors in Heroic Magister’s Terrace will no longer respawn after 
   a soft reset if a boss has already been killed.
-  Sunwell Plateau
   Hellfire will no longer remove Dark Touched in the Eredar Twins
   encounter.
-  Tempest Keep: The Eye
   Void Reaver’s Arcane orbs now generate combat log entries.

Items
-  Arcane Charges now deal arcane damage.
-  Abilities and trinkets that trigger after killing an opponent that 
   gives experience or honor will no longer activate after killing mobs 
   during bombing quests.
-  Battlecast’s Garb should now properly grant pushback resistance in 
   addition to interrupt resistance.
-  Borderland Fortress Grips have had their stats updated.
-  Botanist’s Gloves of Growth have had their texture corrected.
-  Bow of Searing Arrows and Red Whelp Gloves will no longer break 
   Scatter Shot.
-  Brann Bronzebeard’s Lost Letter: This item will no lonber display a 
   damage range in its tooltip.
-  The Cloak of Swift Mending now has a level requirement (70).
-  Crusader’s Scaled Battlegear: The tooltip spelling has been corrected.
-  Darkmoon Card: Madness: The durations of the buffs received from this
   item have been extended to 60 seconds.
-  Elixir of Demonslaying: This elixir now grants ranged attack power 
   against demons as intended.
-  Goblin Jumper Cables are no longer a trinket item.
-  Hazza’rah’s Charm of Healing Haste rating reduced.
-  Items that enchant other items no longer have tradeskill requirements
   (Mithril Spurs, Shield Spikes, Weapon Chains, etc.).
-  The Helm of Fire has had its casting range reduced.
-  The Magic Candle has had its casting range reduced.
-  Many items sold by Consortium vendors are now be bind on pick up: 
   Formula: Enchant Weapon- Major Striking, Design: Delicate Blood 
   Garnet, Design: Shifting Shadow Draenite, Design: Lustrous Azure 
   Moonstone, Design: Thick Golden Draenite.
-  Many items sold by Aldor reputation vendors are now bind on pick up: 
   Design: Gleaming Golden Draenite, Design: Royal Shadow Draenite.
-  Many items sold by the Shattered Sun quartermaster are now bind on 
   pick up: Naaru Ration, Design: Ember Skyfire Diamond.
-  The Lower City reputation item, Recipe: Flask of Chromatic 
   Resistance, is now bind on pick up.
-  Most Main-Hand weapons are now One-Hand weapons.
-  Naturalist’s Preserving Cinch have had their stats updated.
-  Nightfall now has a chance to fail on targets over level 60.
-  Prince Kael’thas will now drop Primal Nethers in Heroic Magisters 
   Terrace.
-  Ravager: Judgements will no longer auto-refresh and break the effect 
   from this item while its effect is active.
-  Reins of the Black War Elekk spell and buff now correspond to the 
   item name.
-  Renataki’s Charm of Trickery has had its energy reduced.
-  Rocket Boots Xtreme and Rocket Boots Xtreme Lite now properly share 
   the same cooldown.
-  The Romantic Picnic Basket will now display the blanket properly.
-  Shard of Azzinoth no longer shares any cooldown with Shaman elemental
   totems.
-  The socket bonus modifiers of some items will now properly display 
   the bonus healing.
-  The reduced cooldown of Shaman Nature’s Swiftness provided by the 4 
   piece set bonus from the Seer’s Ringmail Battlegear PvP armor will 
   now apply properly.
-  Shattered Sun Pendant of Might: The triggered effect from this item 
   will no longer break Scatter Shot or other crowd-controlling affects. 
   The visual on the Scryer version has been updated.
-  Shifting Naaru Silver: Using this item no longer puts players into 
   combat.
-  Silithyst Dust: The bonus from turning this item in no longer works 
   for players above level 63.
-  The Skyshatter Helmet’s gem socket bonus will now properly reflect 
   the plus damage in the tooltip.
-  Shadowsong Panther will no longer prematurely despawn. 
-  Talasite Owl: This trinket will now properly restore full mana as 
   described.
-  Ten Storms Set: The Chain Heal bonus from this set has been reduced 
   by 5%.
-  Troll Male off-hand items are now the same size as the main hand 
   item.
-  Tauren weapons while sheathed have had their graphic readjusted to 
   their pre-patch (2.4.0) state.
-  The Winterfall Firewater buff is no longer dispellable.
-  Wushoolay’s Charm of Nature Haste rating has been reduced.

User Interface
-  Black Lotus will now show up under the Herb subcategory in the 
   auction house.
-  Primal Nethers  will now show up under the Materials subcategory in 
   the auction house.
-  Mailboxes can now be tracked on the minimap.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the UI & 
   Macros Forum. 
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&forumId=11114
   
World Environment
-  Creature versions of the Polymorph spell no longer heal the affected 
   target.
-  The dragons in Blade’s Edge Mountains will no longer instantly knock 
   you off your mount.

Mac
-  Fixed a bug causing ATI kernel panics; all spell effects should now 
   be visible.
-  Weather effects are again visible on systems with ATI 2x00 graphics 
   such as aluminum iMac.
-  Fixed a bug that precluded use of the FireWire iSight microphone with
   voice chat.
-  Symlinks can be used again for Interface and WTF folders and 
   subfolders.
-  Cinematics playback is working again.

Bug Fixes
-  Fixed an issue where secondary sound effects would not work with the 
   Use Hardware option enabled in the Sound options of the User 
   Interface.
-  Fixed an issue where attempting to use some instant cast spells with 
   Auto-Dismount in Flight checked in the interface would fail.
-  Items that have multiple charges will now properly display the amount
   of charges.
-  Fixed an issue where chain damage spells were chaining to critters.
-  Female Draenei horns will now correctly protrude through certain 
   plate helms.
-  The Vengeful Gladiator’s Rifle will now play the proper sound when 
   used.
-  The Cursed Vision of Sargeras now gives the buff, “Sense Demons” 
   which can be canceled normally.  Additionally hunters and druids are 
   able to track two things at once while using the item.
-  It is no longer possible for pets to get stuck in place after exiting
   the Spectral Realm in the Kalecgos encounter.
-  Blood Elf Priest: Consume Magic will now require the buff to be 
   active in order to work properly.
-  Undead Priest: Touch of Weakness will now properly reduce the melee 
   damage of the attacker.
-  Fixed an issue where some spells had extraneous Floating Combat Text
   messages when using the Auras option.
-  Fixed an issue where sometimes debuff icons on a target did not scale
   properly to indicate the spells had been cast by you
-  Ritual of Souls (Warlock) and Ritual of Refreshment (Mage) will no 
   longer be placed on cooldown without having completed the summon.
-  Looting a boss while a player is outside of the instance will no 
   longer cause the corpse to despawn in 2 minutes if the player still 
   has loot on the corpse.
-  Whirlwind now has the correct sound associated with it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.4.1 (2008-04-01) 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hunter

- Tranquilizing Shot no longer incorrectly restricts use of other Hunter
  abilities in specific situations.


User Interface

- Combat Log
  + Only the last 300 combat log entries are now stored.
  + Filter settings are now properly saved.
  + Changing zones will no longer reload the entire log


Bug Fixes

- Fixed a sound engine error that was causing lock-ups on exit.
- Fixed a shader error that was causing kernel panics on Mac PowerPCs.
- Fixed a bug on Mac that was preventing the intro Cinematics from
  playing.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.4.0 (2008-03-25)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fury of the Sunwell

The glorious fount of arcane energy known as the Sunwell empowered the 
high elves for millennia, until the death knight Arthas laid siege to 
the elven kingdom and corrupted its sacred energies. Seeing no other 
alternative, a band of survivors led by Prince Kael’thas destroyed the 
ancient fount. Over time the surviving elves fell pray to a crippling 
magical withdrawal.

Now, promising salvation for his people, Kael’thas has returned. Soon 
the Sunwell will shine once again, but whether the sacred fount will 
usher in deliverance or destruction remains to be seen.


In Memoriam: Gary Gygax

Blizzard Entertainment would like to dedicate the patch in memory of 
Gary Gygax. His work on D&D was an inspiration to us in many ways and 
helped spark our passion for creating games of our own. As avid D&D 
players and fellow game developers, we were all saddened by the news of 
his passing; we feel we’ve lost a true adventuring companion.  Thanks 
for everything and farewell, Gary. You will be missed.


Combat Log Improvements

The combat log has undergone improvements that allow more robust combat 
text filtering including the ability to define custom colors for enemies
and friends as well as combat text filtering for self and others.

Global Arena Tournament 
Players will be able to create level-70 characters with epic 
equipment and compete on special tournament realms in a new global arena
tournament.  For more information, details and entry requirements, 
please visit the official tournament pages.


General
-  The Sunwell Isle is now available for play.  This area includes a new 
   quest hub and 5-player and 25-player instances.
-  The combined forces of Shattrath have launched an attack on the Isle 
   of Quel’Danas, to confront Kael’thas and the Legion at the Sunwell 
   and surrounding areas.  Players will now be able to gain reputation 
   with the Shattered Sun Offensive and participate in a new set of 
   daily quests.
-  A representative of the Keepers of Time has been spotted at the 
   World’s End Tavern in Shattrath.  Players in good standing with the
   faction will be granted ease of passage to the Caverns of Time.
-  Characters will now retain talented spell ranks so when they retalent
   they do not have to relearn the spells from trainers.
-  Spell Haste: Spell haste now reduces the global cooldown on spells, 
   down to a minimum of 1 second.  This change does not apply to melee
   and ranged abilities.
-  Item Cast Spells:  Many spells cast by items were being cast as if 
   the caster were the same level as the item.  Most of those will now 
   be cast at the player’s level, giving them a reasonable chance to 
   miss,be dispelled, or be resisted.
-  Resilience: Now reduces the magnitude of mana draining effects by the
   same amount that it reduces critical strike damage.  The Tooltip has
   been revised to reflect this.
-  Spirit-Based Mana Regeneration: This system has been adjusted so that
   as your intellect rises, you will regenerate more mana per point of 
   spirit.
-  Weapon Skill: Points will be gained faster in weapon skills for 
   levels 1 through 59. 
-  The Daily Quest limit has been increased to 25.
-  Non-self % based haste spells will no longer stack with each other.
   
Racials
-  Find Treasure: This ability no longer deactivates upon death.

Druids
-  Cyclone range is now 20 yards, down from 30.
-  Empowered Rejuvenation: This talent now properly affects the final 
   heal from Lifebloom. 
-  Gift of Nature: This talent now properly affects the healing from 
   Tranquility.
-  Insect Swarm:  Casting lower ranks of this spell is now properly 
   penalized like other healing and damage effects.   
-  Lacerate: This ability now deals additional damage based on the 
   attack power of the Druid. 
-  Lifebloom: The bonus coefficient on the final bloom effect has been 
   reduced by 20%.  This spell will no longer cause error messages when 
   interacting with Spellsteal or while the Druid is under the effects 
   of Mind Control.
-  Mangle (Bear) now properly triggers a 1.5 second global cooldown,
   increased from 1.0 second.
-  Many shapeshift form tooltips have been updated to be consistent with
   each other.
-  Natural Perfection: This ability will no longer be triggered by 
   taking critical strikes while sitting. In addition, it is now 
   affected by the Subtlety talent and now reduces damage by 2/3/4%, 
   down from 1/3/5%.
-  Nurturing Instinct increases your healing spells by up to 50/100% of 
   your Agility, and increases healing done to you by 10/20% while in 
   Cat form.
-  Regrowth: The mana cost of this spell has been reduced by 
   approximately 20%.
-  When a Druid in cat form casts Pounce it will now properly animate.

Hunters
-  Equipping a thrown weapon while in the middle of an Auto-Shot will
   no longer cause animation issues.
-  Casting Flare while in any way not visible, will no longer cause your
   flare to be invisible to other players.
-  Hunter’s Mark: Hunters with Improved Hunter’s Mark will now properly 
   overwrite Hunter’s Mark cast by Hunters without the talent.
-  Improved Mend Pet now has a 25/50% chance to remove one Curse, 
   Disease, Magic, or Poison effect, up from 15/50%. 
-  The stamina tooltip for hunter pets will now display the proper 
   health increase.
-  Track spells will now persist after death.
-  Hunters will no longer spin around if they cast Aimed Shot or Steady
   Shot while facing away from their target.
   
Mages
-  Arcane Explosion: The damage cap for area of effect damage on this 
   spell has been increased by approximately 50%.
-  Arcane Fortitude now increases your armor by an amount equal to 100%
   of your Intellect, up from 50%.
-  Blink, Slow, and Spellsteal have all had their mana cost reduced.
-  Improved Blink: This talent no longer reduces the mana cost of Blink.
   Instead, it increases the chance for all attacks to miss the Mage by 
   25% for 2/4 sec after Blink is cast.
-  Using low ranks of Fire Ward and Frost Ward spell will now be 
   penalized the same way healing spells are penalized.
-  Frostbite: When a frost spell is reflected back at a Mage, it is 
   now possible for the Mage to suffer from the Frostibte effect. 
-  Ice Barrier: Using low ranks of this spell will now be penalized
   the same way healing spells are penalized.
-  Icy Veins no longer increases the chance your chilling effects will 
   Freeze the target, but now increases the chance to avoid interruption
   caused by damage while casting any spell by 100% while active.
-  Improved FireWard has become Molten Shields.
-  Mana Shield: This spell will now get a percentage of the Mage’s bonus
   to spell damage as an additional effect.
-  New Talent: Molten Shields will cause your Fire Ward to have a 10/20%
   chance to reflect Fire spells while active.  In addition, your Molten
   Armor has a 50/100% chance to affect ranged and spell attacks.
-  Permafrost: This talent will now correctly increase the movement 
   slowing effect of frost Armor instead of the attack speed slowing 
   effect.
-  Spellsteal will no longer overwrite a longer duration buff.
   
Paladins
-  Avenger’s Shield, Holy Shield and Holy Shock: Casting lower ranks of 
   these spells is now properly penalized like other healing and damage
   effects.
-  Avenger’s Shield: This ability will no longer jump to secondary 
   targets which are under the effect of crowd-control spells that break
   on taking damage. I.e. Polymorph, Sap, etc.
-  Crusader Strike: This ability will no longer refresh the Healing Way 
   buff from the Shaman talent.
-  Illumination: The mana energize from this talent no longer has
   a chance to set off other triggered effects. 
-  Holy Shock: The healing, damage, and mana cost of this spell have all
   been increased.
-  Judgment of the Crusader: It is no longer possible to have icons for
   two different ranks of Judgment of the Crusader appear at the same 
   time when judged by multiple Paladins. 
-  Judgment of Wisdom: Some abilities (such as Frostbolt) were not 
   triggering the mana energize effect from this spell. This has now 
   been fixed.
-  Resistance Auras:  It is no longer possible for two Paladins in the 
   same party to make it appear that players have two of the same 
   resistance aura active.
-  Righteous Defense: This spell will now always be castable on friendly
   npcs.
-  Seal of Blood: This ability will no longer cause spell pushback for 
   the Paladin with this seal active.
-  Sense Undead- Now persists after death.
-  Turn Undead(Rank 3):This spell has been reworked and has been renamed
   to “Turn Evil”.  It will now work on Demons in addition to Undead.
   Turn Evil is subject to diminishing returns, and lasts 10 seconds in 
   PvP.

Priests
-  Chastise no longer disorients the target, but now is instant cast and
   roots the target for 2 seconds.
-  Fear Ward is now usable while in Shadow form.
-  Focused Will now reduces damage by 2/3/4%, up from 1/3/5%.
-  Inner Focus: Chastise now benefits from Inner Focus.  In addition,
   Starshards no longer consumes Inner Focus.
-  Mass Dispel now affects a maximum of 10 targets, increased from 5.
-  Power Infusion: Infuses the target with power, increasing their spell
   haste by 20% and reducing the mana cost of all spells by 20%. Lasts 
   for 15 seconds. This will not stack with other haste effects, such as
   Heroism, Bloodlust, or Icy Veins.
-  Power Word: Shield: Using low ranks of this spell will now be 
   penalized the same way healing spells are penalized. 
-  Prayer of Mending: This spell will now fade from players who leave
   or enter an instance, change continents, or exit the game.
-  Reflective Shield: The reflective damage from this talent no longer
   breaks crowd control effects which break on taking damage. 
-  Shadowguard: No longer consumes the charge of Inner Focus when 
   triggered.
-  Silent Resolve:This talent now affects Surge of Light, Power 
   Infusion, Inspiration, Spirit Tap, Blackout, Levitate, Shackle 
   Undead, Touch of Weakness, Hex of Weakness, and Symbol of Hope.
-  Touch of Weakness: No longer consumes the charge of Inner Focus 
   when triggered.  It will also function properly even when the 
   Priest with Touch of Weakness on is silenced or stunned.
-  Vampiric Touch: Casting lower ranks of this spell is now properly
   penalized like other healing and damage effects.

Rogues
-  Abilities that can be used while stealthed, without breaking stealth,
   can now be cast without breaking Vanish when used at the same time.
-  Cheat Death: A combat log message will now show when this ability 
   activates and now has an animation.It will now almost always be 
   accurate in displaying the amount of damage done to a rogue when 
   under the effects of Cheat Death.
-  Sap mechanic changed from “Incapacitate” to “Sap”.  This will allow 
   more humanoids that were previously immune to Sap to be vulnerable to
   Sap, but still immune to Gouge.  Note that anything that removed Sap
   previously will still remove Sap after the change.
-  Vanish: This ability will no longer sometimes cause the UI to display
   Shadowmeld as active when it has been cancelled.

Shaman
-  Call of Thunder: (Rank 5) now gives 5% critical strike chance down 
   from 6%.
-  Earth Shield: Mana cost reduced roughly in half, and charges reduced 
   from 10 to 6. 
-  Elemental Focus: This buff will no longer be removed when Shamanistic
   Focus is triggered.
-  Flametongue Weapon: Having different ranks of this enchantment cast 
   on two different weapons will no longer cause the enchantments to 
   trigger multiple times per swing.
-  Ghost Wolf: Cast time reduced to 2 seconds, down from 3 seconds.
-  The Global Cooldown of all Totems has been reduced to 1 seconds, down
   from 1.5 seconds.
-  Healing Grace: This talent now reduces the chance your spells will
   be dispelled by 10/20/30%. The resistance to being dispelled modifier
   from this talent now applies correctly to Water Breathing.
-  Rockbiter Weapon: Tooltip and error messages have been adjusted 
   slightly.
-  Shamanistic Rage is now a Physical ability instead of a Magic spell,
   and thus is no longer dispellable.It now reduces all damage taken by 
   30% and gives your successful melee attacks a chance to regenerate 
   mana equal to 30% of your attack power.  This lasts for 15 seconds 
   with a 2 minute cooldown.
-  Stormstrike has a new icon.
-  Totem timer icons will now show up under your player portrait when
   you cast totem spells.  Right-clicking a totem timer icon will 
   destroy that totem.
-  Toughness will now also reduce the duration of movement slowing 
   effects on you by 10/20/30/40/50%.
-  Tremor Totem now pulses every 3 seconds, down from 4 seconds.
-  The Shaman spell Fire Nova Totem will no longer sometimes detonate
   without doing any damage.
   
Warlock
-  Blood Pact now has a tooltip.
-  Demonic Knowledge: This buff will no longer remain on enslaved 
   demons when Enslave Demon is removed.It will now increase your spell 
   damage by an amount equal to 4/8/12%, down from 5/10/15%.
-  Demonic Sacrifice:  Now works properly in sanctuary regions 
  (such as Shattrath City and the Stair of Destiny).
-  Emberstorm now also reduces the cast time of your incinerate spell 
   by 2/4/6/8/10%.
-  Nether Protection:  The buff from this talent will no longer 
   interrupt capturing PvP flags and bases.
-  Pyroclasm: This talent now works correctly again with Rain of Fire.
-  Ritual of Summoning can be used to summon players into instances
   if they meet the instance requirements.
-  Sense Demon now persists after death.
-  Shadow Ward: Using low ranks of this spell will now be penalized
   the same way healing spells are penalized. 

Warrior
-  Endless Rage will now give the correct amount of rage as intended 
   from damage dealt by a Warrior.
-  Improved Hamstring (Arms) effect is now subject to diminishing 
   returns when used in PvP.
-  Stances: It is no longer possible to accidentally change into a 
   stance you are already in via macros (resulting in a global cooldown
   and loss of rage).
-  Whirlwind: Critical strikes with the off-hand weapon from this 
   ability can now trigger Flurry and Rampage.
-  Flurry will properly refresh if a crit occurs with 1 charge left.
   
PvP
-  Diminishing returns on honor for kills is being eliminated.
-  Honor will now be instantly calculated, and available for player use.
-  Players that have the resurrection sickness debuff will be worth no
   honor.
-  Added new PvP daily quests that send players to Halaa and the Spirit
   Towers of the Bone Wastes. These quests are available for Alliance 
   and Horde at their respective local quest hubs.
-  Arenas
   Personal Rating: The amount a player’s personal rating can climb 
   above his or her team’s rating is now limited.
   The benefits of drinking out of combat have been delayed while in the
   Arena. It will now take four seconds before the full benefit of the 
   mana regeneration will come into effect.
   Queue times for arena matches have been reduced.  Players will now 
   be able to enter matches faster than previously.
   Shadow Sight now increases damage taken by 5% rather than dealing
   damage over time. Duration has been reduced from 21 seconds to 15 
   seconds.
   Players feared outside of the Arena (through the world or outside 
   the arena walls) will now be teleported back to the center of the 
   arena map.
-  Battlegrounds
   If a player dies 50 times or more in a battleground, they will no 
   longer be worth honor for the remainder of that battle.
   When you first enter a battleground, messages about other players 
   joining the battleground will be linked together for the first 
   minute. You will see a message in AV like "28 players joined" rather
   than a line for each player that joined. After the first minute, it 
   will work as it always has. In addition, all of the messages about 
   other players leaving the battleground and getting marks of honor 
   once the battleground is complete have been removed.
   Battleground Rune Buffs:Speed, Restoration, and Berserking buffs 
   received from battleground runes will no longer cause Stealth or 
   Prowl to break.
   Alterac Valley
   Captain Balinda Stonehearthnow Stonehearth can no longer be 
   interrupted, silenced, or have her spells slowed. In addition, her 
   water elemental cannot be banished, and does increased damage.
   Vanndar Stormpike and Captain Balinda Stonehearth have had their 
   health totals reduced to match the health totals of Drek’Thar and
   Captain Galvangar.
   Warmasters/marshals in Alterac Valley now increase each other’s 
   maximum health and damage by 25%.  This is a stacking effect.
   Horde players will now start the battle closer to Drek’Thar and 
   Frostwolf Keep.
   There is now a Join as Party option.
   Warsong Gulch
   When both flags are held, the flag carriers will receive 50% 
   increased damage done to them after approximately 10 minutes and 
   100% increased damage after approximately 15 minutes.
   Flag carriers can now be tracked 45 seconds after picking up the 
   flag.
   
Professions
-  Added several new tradeskill items to the new Sunwell Daily faction 
   vendor:
   Enchanting recipe to shatter a Void Crystal into two Large Prismatic
   Shards.
   Enchanting recipe to increase Defense Rating by 15 for chest armor.
   Three jewelcrafting recipes to cut gems with spell haste from 
   Dawnstones, Talasite, and noble Topaz.
   Two new meta gem recipes.
-  Alchemy
   Gift of Arthas now stacks to 20.
   Transmute Arcanite no longer has a cooldown.
-  Cooking
   Broiled Bloodfin now increases resistances to all schools of magic
   instead of increasing Stamina and Spirit.
   New recipes, Charred Bear Kabobs and Juicy Bear Burgers, can be  
   purchased from either Bale (Horde) or Malygen (Alliance) in Felwood.
   These recipes requires 250 skill to learn, and are created from meat
   found on level 48-56 bears.  This will aid players in leveling up 
   their cooking skill to 300 without fishing.
-  Enchanting
   Reduced the materials required for Enchant Shield – Resistance
-  Engineering
   Gagsprocket in Ratchet now sells the plans for the Minor 
   Recombobulator.
   Goblin Jumper Cables and Goblin Jumper Cables XL now display cooldown
   information in their tooltips.
   Removed the level requirement for the Craftsman's Monocle.
   The stun caused by engineering Bombs and Grenades is now considered 
   an Incapacitate effect and uses the appropriate Incapacitate 
   diminishing returns.  Bomb and Grenades can now inflict damage to 
   targets immune to Stun and Incapacitate effects.
   A new recipe has been added for Rocket Boots Xtreme Lite, a cloth 
   version of the Rocket Boots Xtreme.  This pattern drops from 
   Mechano-Lord Capacitus.
   Rocket Boots Xtreme now have all their stat points allocated toward 
   Attack Power, and will no longer have Stamina.
   Rocket Boots Xtreme and Rocket Boots Xtreme Lite will cause players 
   to drop a PvP flag if used while carrying one. (Warsong Gulch, Eye 
   of the Storm, and Zangarmarsh)
-  Fishing
   New Fishing Daily Quests!  Visit the mysterious old man fishing at 
   Silmyr Lake outside of Shattrath City to discover what treasures he
   has to offer.
   Find Fish now correctly tracks Schools of Tastyfish and Muddy 
   Churning Waters.
   Feltail fishing nodes have been changed to Brackish Mixed Schools; 
   they now produce mostly Golden Darters and some Feltail.
   Removed the level requirement from the expert fishing book, The Bass 
   and You.
-  Herbalism
   Ancient Lichen now has a chance to drop a Fel Lotus where it used 
   to drop a piece of random green jewelry.
   Black Lotus replaced by Fel Lotus in herbalism skinning tables for
   Outland creatures.
   Increased the chance that Felweed, Dreaming Glory, Ragveil, and 
   Flame Caps will contain a Fel Lotus.
   Warp Splinter can now be skinned with Herbalism in heroic difficulty.
-  Jewelcrafting
   A new jewelcrafting recipe has been added to transform many green 
   quality gems into a single random blue quality gem. This recipe is 
   available from grandmaster jewelcrafting trainers.
-  Leatherworking
   Shadow Oil will now fit into Leatherworking Bags.
-  Mining
   Increased the skill up potential for most smelting recipes. 
   
Quests
-  New Daily Dungeon quests for both the heroic and non-heroic 
   five-person Magister's Terrace dungeon at the Sunwell.
-  Players can now turn in one of each battleground mark for an honor 
   reward. The questgivers for this turn-in are the Horde Warbringer and
   the Alliance Brigadier General and can be found near the 
   battlemasters in the capital cities.
-  Dungeon and Group Quest Experience: The amount of experience awarded
   for dungeon and 5-person group quests in Outland has been increased
   in almost all cases.
-  The daily quest Escape from Skettis has had its reward tuned down.
-  The number of elite Shadowsworn Drakonid patrollers on the Ata'mal
   Terrace has been cut in half. Most of the remainder have had their
   patrol paths lengthened.
-  Increased the slots on Old Blanchy's Feed Pouch to 8.
-  The Thunderspike no longer sparkles for Alliance characters, nor 
   does it show up on the mini-map when Find Treasure is in use.
-  "Zapper Fuel" is now flagged as a Sunken Temple dungeon quest.

Dungeons and Raids
-  All 25-player raid bosses have had their cash drops increased!
-  All 25- player raid bosses that drop set tokens will now drop an
   additional token!
-  Badges of Justice have been added to all raid bosses who did not
   previously have them!
-  Players will no longer require an attunement quest to enter Hyjal.
-  Players will no longer require an attunement quest to enter the Black
   Temple.
-  Players who have completed the attunement quests for Black Temple and
   Hyjal will be granted the title of "Hand of A'dal".
-  You may now fight Prince Kael’thas and Lady Vashj without first 
   killing all the other bosses in their respective dungeons.
-  The Unstable Cloud and Frost Breath spells are now treated properly 
   as a movement impairing spells.
-  Non-corporeal Undead and Mechanical creatures are now susceptible 
   to bleed effects.
-  Elemental creatures are no longer explicitly immune to poison and 
   disease effects.  Elementals with nature school immunities will still
   be immune to nature-based poisons, however.
-  Gems obtained through Heroic difficulty instances are no longer 
   Unique-equipped.
-  Loot dropped by Doomlord Kazzak and Doomwalker has been changed to 
   Bind on Equip. In addition, the cash dropped by these bosses has been
   significantly increased.
-  Scale of the Sands reputation will now be awarded in Hyjal at a much
    higher rate.
-  Caverns of Time: Heroic Black Morass
   Rift Keepers and Rift Lords now have reduced hit points.
   Durnholde Lookouts no longer spawn in the Heroic version of the 
   instance.  The placement of creatures around Durnholde Keep in Heroic
   mode is now identical to that of Normal mode.
-  Caverns of Time: Mount Hyjal
   The Vials of Eternity quest is no longer necessary for entry to 
   Hyjal. This quest is still required for faction rings.
   Azgalor's Rain of Fire now affects a smaller area.
-  Caverns of Time: Old Hillsbrad
   The Human Illusion effect will now always be removed properly when a
   player leaves the instance.
-  Hellfire Citadel: Magtheridon’s Lair
   Many gameplay elements of the encounters in Magtheridon’s Lair have
   been changed to decrease their overall complexity and difficulty.
-  Karazhan
   Players will no longer need the Master’s Key to enter Karazhan.  The 
   gates to Karazhan will still require the Master’s Key to be unlocked.
-  Sunwell Isle: Magisters’ Terrace
   There is now a teleport orb located behind Kael’thas that will become
   active when he dies and will allow players to teleport out of the 
   Magisters’ Terrace.
-  Tempest Keep: The Eye
   The Vapor Clouds in the Kael'thas encounter are significantly easier 
   to see. 
   Void Reaver is now immune to Vindication again.
-  Tempest Keep: The Mechanar
   The Mechanar: It is no longer possible to gain an additional Badge of
   Justice by bringing Cache of the Legion keys obtained in other copies
   of the instance.
-  Zul’Aman
   Jan’alai will now only teleport players to him if they are too far 
   away.

Items
-  Players will now be able to purchase level 70 Superior quality PvP 
   items from reputation vendors.
-  Avatar Regalia: The two-piece bonus from this set will now be 
   consumed by Vampiric Embrace as intended.
-  Bloody Brass Knuckles, Eerie Stable Lantern, Baelog's Shortbow, and 
   Snakeskin Bag have been upgraded to Superior items.
-  Blue Suede Shoes can now be disenchanted.
-  Crystalforge Raiment: The two-piece set bonus will now work 
   properly. Additionally, the four piece bonus will now only work on 
   the next Holy Light cast, as intended. 
-  Cyclone Regalia: Trade skills will no longer consume the Energized 
   effect.
-  Darkmoon Card: Madness: The buffs from this item will no longer 
   interrupt casting and channeling.
-  Deadman's Hand: This item's effect now works while the victim is 
   sitting. In addition, its effect is now properly considered a root 
   for purposes of being dispelled or removed. 
-  Deathwing Brood Cloak: These cloaks are now bound on equip instead of
   bound on pickup.
-  Discombobulator Ray: This item will again not work on mounted 
   players.
-  Druid Balance PvP Sets:  The bonus movement speed for Bear, Cat, and
   Travel Form has been removed and replaced with a new bonus to Wrath 
   and Starfire.
-  Druid Restoration PvP Sets: The bonus movement speed for Bear, Cat, 
   and Travel Form has been removed and replaced with a new bonus to 
   Regrowth.
-  Frostfire Regalia: The resistance bonus from this set now works with
   the Burning Crusade ranks of Mage Armor. 
-  Gladiator's Leather Gloves: This arena bonus will now properly school
   lock enemies when the damage from Deadly Throw causes them to stop 
   channeling.
-  The Gladiator’s Thunderfist 4 piece set bonus has been reduced from
   70% to 50%.
-  Gnomish Mind Control Cap: Victims of the Gnomish Mind Control Cap 
   will no longer get Forbearance when the mind control is terminated
   due to Blessing of Protection. 
-  Gnomish Poultryizer: This item will again not work on mounted 
   players. 
-  Goblin Rocket Launcher: Creatures will no longer gain health while
   affected by the Stun from this item. 
-  Heavy Netherweave Bandage: It is no longer possible to have two 
   players bandage the same target simultaneously using this item. 
-  Netherweave Bandage: It is no longer possible to have two players
   bandage the same target simultaneously using this item.
-  Idol of the Crescent Goddess: The mana discount on Regrowth has 
   been increased. 
-  Idol of Feral Shadows: The bonus damage to Rip has been increased. 
-  Idol of the Raven Goddess: The bonus healing, critical strike rating,
   and spell critical strike rating from this item have been increased.
   In addition, it no longer sometimes fails to apply the healing bonus. 
-  Idol of the Unseen Moon: The cooldown added in a previous patch has 
   been removed. 
-  Idol of Ursoc: The bonus damage to Lacerate has been increased and 
   the tooltip clarified to indicate it applies to both initial and 
   periodic damage. 
-  Idol of the White Stag: Duration increased.
-  Items intended for Retribution Paladins have had their stats 
   adjusted. Retribution Paladins should see an increase in dps as a 
   result.
-  Jade Pendant of Blasting: This item no longer increases physical 
   damage dealt.
-  Justicar Raiment: The 2 piece bonus will now always give the correct 
   amount of bonus healing to the Judgement Light effect.
-  Libram of Absolute Truth: The Holy Light mana discount has been 
   increased. 
-  Libram of Divine Purpose: The bonus damage on Seal and Judgment of 
   Righteousness has been increased. 
-  Libram of Mending: The mana regeneration buff has had its duration 
   increased.The name of the buff granted by this item changed to Grace
   of the Naaru to avoid having the same name as the Light’s Grace 
   talent.  
-  Libram of Righteous Power: The bonus damage for Crusader Strike has 
   been increased. 
-  Libram of Souls Redeemed: The bonus for Flash of Light has been 
   decreased and the bonus for Holy Light has been increased. 
-  Libram of Wracking: This item now increases the damage on Holy Wrath
   and Exorcism instead of decreasing their mana cost.
-  Nether Vortex are no longer Bind on Pickup and can now be purchased 
   from G’eras for 15 Badges of Justice!
-  Masquerade Gown: The spirit bonus from this item will now properly 
   trigger all benefits from the Tree of Life talent. 
-  Masterwork Stormhammer: The Chain Lightning cast by this item will no
   longer jump to secondary targets which are under the effect of crowd-
   control spells that break on taking damage. i.e. Polymorph, Sap, etc.
-  Mojo: A pvp-flagged player can no longer kiss Mojo and cause 
   non-flagged players to become flagged. 
-  Moongraze Stag Tenderloin can now be consumed by hunter pets that 
   eat meat. 
-  Noggenfogger Elixir: It is no longer possible using this item to 
   keep the Old Hillsbrad human illusion outside of the instance.
-  Paladin Healer Gladiator Sets: The set bonus changing Hammer of 
   Justice cooldown has been changed to a set bonus increasing the 
   amount healed by Holy Shock.
-  Pendant of the Violet Eye: Paladin Judgment spells will again 
   properly trigger this item.
-  Players can now only carry 80 Conjured Manna Biscuits at a time.
-  Primal Nether are no longer Bind on Pickup!
-  PvP Relics: The bonus resilience from Idols, Librams, and Totems is 
   no longer stackable by swapping between multiple relics.
-  Resilience has been added to all Retribution Paladin PvP gear.
-  Added Shattrath Flask of Pure Death and Shattrath Flask of Blinding
   Light to the reputation flask vendors in Shattrath.
-  Shaman Elemental PvP Sets: The resistance on Lightning Bolt spell 
   pushback has been reduced to 50%.
-  Shaman PvP Boots: The pre-Burning Crusade bonus to increase Ghost 
   Wolf speed no longer works for players over level 60.
-  Shattrath Flasks now work inside the Sunwell Plateau raid instance.
-  Skull of Gul’dan: This item now shares its cooldown with other 
   similar trinkets.
-  Steam Tonk Controller: This item can no longer trigger the Warrior 
   talent Second Wind when it is driven out of range by the Warrior.
-  The On Use effect has been properly changed to passive for the 
   following items: Blue Overalls, Brantwood Sash, Firewalker Boots, 
   Gloves of Kapelan, Hellion Boots, Hibernal Gloves, Hibernal Pants,
   Kimbra Boots, Mistscape Gloves, Nightsky Trousers, Sacred Burial 
   Trousers, Turquoise Sash, and Woolen Boots, Spinesever.
-  Thunderstrike: The Chain Lightning cast by this item will no longer 
   jump to secondary targets which are under the effect of crowd-control
   spells that break on taking damage. i.e. Polymorph, Sap, etc.   
-  Tome of the Lightbringer: The block value and buff duration have
   been increased.
-  Totem of the Pulsing Earth: The mana discount for Lightning Bolt 
   has been increased slightly.
-  Vengeful Gladiator’s Waraxe:  The weapon delay has been reduced.
-  Weightstones and Sharpening Stones: The bonus damage from these 
   temporary enchantments now works while shapeshifted.
-  Winterfall Firewater: The tooltip no longer specifies only melee
   attack power.

User Interface
-  The Interface Options screen has been completely redesigned.  AddOns
   that interact with the Interface Options screen will need to be 
   updated.
-  Players will now be able to inspect other players via their chat link.
-  Players may now inspect players of the opposing faction while they 
   are not flagged for PvP.
-  Combat Log Improvements
   New tabs are available for sorting combat messages.
   ctrl-right clicking functionality has been added for individual 
   information sorting
   Colors may now be assigned for friends and enemies
   The WoWCombatLog.txt file format has been changed to make it easier
   for programs to read.
-  Cast sequences work with slot numbers again.
-  GM messages now appear with a Blizzard icon near their name.
-  You can now declare war on a faction in the reputation UI while 
   you are in combat.
-  Spell haste and Armor Penetration will now display on the character 
   sheet. (Armor Penetration displays in the hit rating section). Spell
   Penetration now displays under the spell hit section.
-  Weapon enchants are now shown at the character selection screen.
-  The friends list now has a notes field per friend. Click on the note
   icon to add a note for a particular friend.
-  There is now a UI option to display free bag space. When turned on, 
   your backpack will display the total number of free spaces available 
   in all your bags.
-  You can now link quests into chat by Shift-Clicking on the quest name
   in the quest log.
-  Merchants now display how many pages of merchandise they sell 
   (Page 1 of 2).
-  Guild Bank Changes 
   Ranks can now be set to allow withdraw of funds or allow repair with
   funds or both. 
   When purchasing a bank tab, it takes money out of the guild bank 
   before it takes your personal money. This is logged as well. 
   Each Tab now has an info pane. This pane can be used for requests 
   or for rules about the tab or anything at all really.
-  When looting Bind on Pickup items, the confirmation dialogue now 
   lists the name of the item in the dialogue. You can now verify that
   you are picking up the correct bind on pickup item.
-  Bind on Pickup items that only you can pick up (Heroic Badges for 
   instance) will no longer bring up a confirmation dialogue.
-  Players can now opt out of looting for group loot, round robin and 
   need before greed looting styles. If a player turns this on, they 
   will not get a looting turn in the loot cycle. This can be turned on 
   from the right-click menu on your own portrait.
-  In Master Loot mode, all players in the group will see sparkles on 
   corpses that have loot above the master loot threshold. This lets 
   everyone see what the master loot items are, though they cannot 
   interact with them. Only the master looter can loot those items 
   still.
-  Searching for an item in the tradeskill search box should now hide 
   empty categories.
-  The names over the heads of nearby players who are on your friends 
   list will appear in a different color now so you can tell when they 
   are nearby.
-  Stacked items for sale at the auction house now display the per unit 
   price and per unit buyout price in the item mouseover.
-  The profession UI search field has been improved and now allows for
   searching of more types of things. For instance you can search for 
   items by socket color, by effect ("Critical Strike" for instance) 
   or search gems by their effect ("Strength" for instance). In 
   addition, the searching of items by level has been made more 
   intuitive. You can now search for items by level with "15-20" to 
   search for items that you can make that have a minimum level required
   of 15 to 20.
-  The Tooltip for player Dodge/Block/Parry in the character sheet has 
   been changed slightly.
-  Optimized particle system rendering for improved frame rates.
-  The casting bar will now display properly when casting Blizzard 
   (mage) or Rain of Fire (warlock) with spell haste.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the UI & 
   Macros Forum. 
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&forumId=11114
   
World Environment
-  Alterac Valley, Arathi Basin, Warsong Gulch, Blade’s Edge Arena, 
   Lordaeron Arena, and Nagrand Arena: Players who fall below the world
   in these environments will now die instead of being stuck. 
-  Creature versions of Intimidating Shout have been changed to 
   Frightening Shout, and the primary target of the ability is now 
   feared instead of stunned.
-  Critters: Ambient level 1 creatures will no longer be picked as 
   subsequent targets by chaining spells and abilities.
-  Doomwalker: This creature will no longer sometimes cause a player’s 
   Darkmoon Card: Vengeance to trigger and put the player in combat with
   the Doomwalker.
-  Elites in Blade’s Edge Plateau Regions: These creatures now have an
   increased chance to drop rare depleted items.
-  Eye of Culuthas and Hound of Culuthas now drop grey loot.
-  Goreclaw the Ravenous can now be skinned.
-  Interacting with objects (chests, mining nodes, herbs) should no
   longer aggro neutral creatures.
-  Monstrous Kaliri have learned how to chase players going straight 
   up.
-  Shardtooth Mauler: This creature now drops meat like other bears. 
-  Outland Rare Spawn
   The following creatures have had their hit points and damage 
   significantly reduced: Collidus the Warp-Watcher, Fulgorge, 
   Hemathion, Kraator, Marticar, Morcrush, and Nuramoc
-  The Ratchet bank now has access to the Guild Vault.
-  A mailbox has been added to the inn in Darnassus.
   
Bug Fixes
-  Fixed an error that was causing many auctions to never complete due
   to the item no longer being on the auction house.
-  Splintertree Raiders will now respawn with Torek if Duriel Moonfire
   and her guards are killed while the Raiders are still alive.
-  Female Draenei can no longer become stuck under a root in the tunnels
   leading to Blackfathom Deeps, Ashenvale.
-  The quest description text for "The Corpulent One" no longer refers
   to it being a group quest.
-  Saber/Tiger Mounts will now make footprints when walking backwards 
   in snow.
-  Ogri'la Peacekeeper's weapons have been scaled o a size more 
   appropriate for keeping the peace..
-  Unplugging speakers/headphones during the opening cinematic will no 
   longer freeze the cinematic until canceled.
-  Pets are now able to properly attack mobs near the walls on the ramps
   in Zul'Aman, Bear Wing.
-  The flag on the battle map in Eye of the Storm will no longer show up
   as Horde controlled even if an alliance player has picked it up.
-  Channeling spells will no longer continue to show the channeling bar
   after zoning into arena battlegrounds.
-  Blood Elf corpses now properly have loot in Alterac Valley 
   battlegrounds.
-  Snake Trap will no longer affect non-combat flagged players.
-  Leaving a 2v2 arena team and creating a new 2v2 team while on a 3v3 
   arena team will no longer result in incorrect rosters listed for each
   team.
-  Joining a second arena match before a previous arena has closed will 
   no longer result in personal rating not updating correctly.
-  Attempting to promote an arena team member to Team Captain while that
   member is offline will no longer result in a "Player not found" 
   error.
-  Disbanding an arena team while inside an arena battle will no longer 
   cause the arena UI to become corrupted until logout.
-  The Arena Team Petition Window will now automatically close when the
   Arena Captain is out of range or offline.
-  Switching arena teams after playing a game will no longer cause the
   PvP tab to incorrectly display your old team's rating.
-  There is now a chat message given after attaining a 
   new title.
-  Alterac Valley quests will now properly show a golden ! or blue ? for
   players above level 65.
-  Nazan in Hellfire Citadel: Nazan will no longer sometimes not land
   on the ground until after Vazruden the Herald is killed or Nazan is 
   heavily damaged.
-  Archimonde's Grip of the Legion will no longer target pets.
-  It is no longer possible to be saved to a Heroic instance while not
   meeting the requirements to get into it.
-  There is no longer an area in Serpentine Cavern where using Field 
   Repair Bot 74A will cause it to fall through the ground.
-  There is no longer an area in Coilfang Steamvaults where ground 
   targeting AOE effects cannot be cast.
-  The proc from Black Bow of the Betrayer will no longer break crowd
   control effects such as Scatter Shot.
-  Vengeful Gladiator's Mooncloth Hood and Vengeful Gladiator's Satin
   Hood will now display Troll Tusks.
-  Thori'dal, the Stars' Fury will now display its bow animations 
   correctly.
-  The Legion Ring boundary markers no longer occasionally disappear.
-  Monthly quests will now properly reset at midnight server time.
-  Fixed an area in Netherwing Fields in Shadowmoon Valley where players
   on flying mounts could be dismounted and were unable to mount.
-  It is no longer possible for players to use guild banks in opposing 
   faction cities.
-  The Clockwork Rocket Bot can no longer be buffed.
-  Players with moderator status in custom channels will now properly 
   lose moderator status when kicked by the channel owner.
-  Sending mail to a non-existent character will now result in players
   getting the message, “Cannot find mail recipient”.
-  Zeppelin Master Zapetta will no longer become confused about whether 
   the zeppelin in Orgrimmar is arriving or leaving.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.3.3 (2008-01-22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
-  Some players may notice improved data load times when newly entering
   the world and after zoning into new areas.
-  Character/NPC load times have been decreased, and now should appear
   faster. You’re not hearing voices, there really are people in 
   Shattrath!
   
Bug Fixes
-  Felspine the Greater in Shadowmoon Valley will no longer evade when 
   engaged.
-  Guttripper in Nagrand will no longer evade when engaged.
-  Players will now be correctly credited with their arena points if 
   they purchase an arena item during weekly arena calculations.
-  Using a castsequence macro on a target moving out of range will no 
   longer cause it to stop working.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.3.2 (2008-01-08)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
-  /timetest is a command that can be run to provide information
   on game performance. /timetest 0 turns the command off. When the 
   command is issued, the next time a player uses a flight master to 
   travel, certain statistics will be measured and displayed at the end
   of that flight. All weather effects and spawns are shutdown during 
   the test. 
-  Effects triggered from being critically hit: Many abilities and 
   talents were changed in 2.3.0 to allow them to trigger from critical
   strikes that occurred while the player benefitting from them was 
   sitting.  
-  Quest givers with blue question marks no longer show up on the 
   minimap. 
-  NPC's who you have completed a quest for will display a question mark
   on mouseover rather than an exclamation point.
-  The bank controls for the guildmaster level of a guild is now grayed 
   out. A guildmaster always has full access to a guild bank and this 
   cannot be changed. 
-  A "Withdraw-Repair Only" button has been added to the guild bank 
   controls. If this is set for a guild rank, then that rank cannot 
   actually withdraw funds from the guild bank, but they can still use
   that daily amount of money for repairs.
-  You will now automatically stand up when attacked, even if the attack
   doesn’t land.
-  Boat and zeppelin vendors and NPCs are back on duty.
-  Reduced network latency by disabling the Nagle algorithm.
   
Druids
-  Lifebloom: When this ability is refreshed it will take on the 
   strength of the incoming Lifebloom effect, rather than maintain the 
   existing strength.
-  Ravage: The damage multiplier on this ability has been increased from
   350% to 385%.
   
Hunters
-  Arcane Shot: Ranks 1-5 will once again deal bonus damage based on 
   attack power.
-  Aspect of the Viper effect increased.
-  Freezing Trap is no longer limited to one target at a time.
-  Pet leveling speed has been increased.

Mages
-  Cold Snap (Frost) cooldown reduced. It is now in the Ice Block 
   position in the talent tree. This ability will no longer reset the
   cooldown on Fire Ward.
-  Conjure Mana Gem mana restore variance substantially reduced,
   (Rank 5 – Emerald) now restores 2340 to 2460 mana and has three 
   charges.   
-  Ice Block (Frost) is now available on the trainer to all mages at 
   level 30.
-  Icy Veins (NEW Frost Talent) decreases casting time of all spells by
   20% and increases the chance your chilling effects will freeze the 
   target by 10%. Lasts 20 sec. 3 min cooldown. It is now in the Cold 
   Snap position in the talent tree.

Paladins
-  Crusader Strike (Retribution) now causes 110% of weapon damage and 
   no longer gains any bonus from spell damage.
-  Righteous Fury: This spell will no longer cost twice the listed mana
   to cast.
-  Sanctified Judgements (Retribution) now returns 80% of the Seal's 
   mana cost, increased from 50%.

Rogues
-  Ambush: The damage multiplier on this ability has been increased from
   250% to 275%.
-  Cheat Death: When multiple attacks land simultaenously, all those 
   resolved after the attack which triggered Cheat Death will now have 
   their damage reduced by 90% as intended. However, the combat log will
   still report them doing full damage. 
-  Hemorrhage: Rank 4 of this ability no longer has its charges consumed
   by non-physical attacks and spells.
-  Hemorrhage weapon damage reduced from 125% to 110%, but the damage 
   debuff has been increased.
-  Hemorrhage:  This ability now correctly does additional damage when 
   its debuff has already been applied.
-  Preparation now resets the cooldown of Shadowstep and no longer 
   resets the cooldown of Adrenaline Rush.
-  Shadowstep now adds a 3 second, 70% movement speed increase.
-  Sinister Calling now also increases the percentage damage bonus of 
   Hemorrhage and Backstab by 2/4/6/8/10%.

Shaman
-  Lightning Shield mana cost reduced.
-  Water Shield now restores mana periodically regardless of how many 
   charges remain. Duration increased to 10 minutes. 
   

Warlock
-  The health cost taken from the Warlock after using Health Funnel will
   now remain consistent between uses.

Warrior
-  Defiance: The expertise granted by this talent now works properly in
   all stances.
-  Warriors no longer lose rage when using a macro to enter a stance 
   they’re already in.
   
Professions
-  Cooking
   Goldthorn Tea was erroneously unlearned by most players who had 
   learned the recipe.  The recipe has been re-enabled and can be 
   learned again from Henry Stern in Razorfen Downs at no cost.
-  Enchanting
   Enchant Shield - Resilience now requires a Runed Fel Iron Rod instead
   of a Runed Adamantite Rod.
-  Leatherworking
   Increased the range of leatherworking drums to 40 yards.  Drums of 
   Panic remains unchanged at 8 yards.

Items
-  Amani Charm of the Witch Doctor: Tooltip typo corrected. 
-  Hearthstone: The cast time on this item is no longer affected by 
   spell haste. 
-  Hex Shrunken Head: This item now has a 20 second shared cooldown with
   other similar trinkets.
-  Icy Chill Enchant: The triggered effect from this enchantment will
    now cause a melee slow and movement snare as intended. 
-  Idol of the Unseen Moon: This item now has a 30 second cooldown on
   being triggered. 
-  Idol of Terror: The triggered agility buff from this item no longer
   overwrites other agility buffs.
-  The Netherscale Ammo Pouch is no longer a Unique item.
-  The Knothide Quiver is no longer unique.
-  The Vengeful Gladiator’s Grimoire is now available on vendors.

Dungeons and Raids
-  Heroic Coilfang Resevoir- Steamvaults
   Mekgineer Steamrigger's Main Chambers Access Panel is no longer 
   interactable until Mekgineer Steamrigger has been killed.
-  Tempest Keep- The Eye
   The number of Blood Elves guarding Prince Kael'Thas' room has been
   reduced.
-  Zul’Aman
   The Amani'shi Warrior's Charge ability now has a minimum range.
   The melee haste provided by Halazzi's Frenzy has been reduced to 
   100%.
   Dragonhawks in Zul'Aman can now be skinned.  This doesn't include 
   dragonhawks that do not have loot.

Quests
-  Blade's Edge Mountains: Players accepting the bombing run quests in
   Blade's Edge Plateaus will no longer cause other players in the 
   region to stand up.

User Interface
-  There is now an option to turn off the screen edge damage flash when
   you have a fullscreen UI up. 
-  You can sell stacks by dropping them on the merchant window again.
-  Ready check (/readycheck) will now display a visual display of each 
   party/raid member's status next to their name. This will display in 
   the Party UI, the Raid UI and the Raid pullout UI. A player will get
   a check mark if they are ready, a question mark if they have not 
   replied and a red X if they are not ready or are afk. 
-  You can now see raid members on the minimap as dark blue dots in 
   addition to party members which still display as light blue dots. 
-  You can now shift click names while the petition window is open to 
   paste them into the petition.
-  Fixed various problems with /castsequence getting stuck.
-  /cast will toggle spells again unless the name is prefixed with an 
   exclamation mark, e.g. /castsequence Steady Shot, !Auto Shot
   
Bug Fixes
-  Characters may now possess up to five Paper Flying Machines in a 
   single stack.
-  Fixed “Spell/Ability is not ready yet” message when clicking quickly 
   at the beginning of a cast.
-  Fixed a server disconnect when moving the mouse over recipes in the 
   guild bank.
-  Gnomish Universal Remote will now work properly with the Fel Cannon.
-  Disconnecting a USB HeadSet will no longer cause problems with the 
   Voice Chat dropdown menus.
-  Clockwork Rocket Bots will no longer attack each other in Shattrath 
   City.
-  Channel changes will now appear properly in the chat log after zoning
   in or out of instances.
-  Unplugging headphones/speakers then plugging them back in while in 
   WoW no longer disables all sound in WoW
-  If the original owner of a custom channel gives leadership away their
   options menu will no longer show that they have moderation privileges.
-  The first custom created guild ranking will now properly show up in 
   the Guild Control pane drop down menu.
-  Control-clicking on inventory items that teach recipes will now 
   properly display you wearing the item made by the recipe in the 
   dressing room UI.
-  Fixed an issue that was not allowing all charges of a Field Repair 
   Bot to be used.
-  Creatures with random player targeting crowd control abilities such 
   as fear, charm, or sleep will now properly choose a random eligible 
   target rather than just choosing the nearest eligible target.
-  The various Hallow’s End broom mounts now have their proper real-time
  (rather than game-time) duration of 14 days.
-  Tricky Treats now have their proper real-time (rather than game-time)
   duration of 24 hours.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.3.0 (2007-11-13)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Gods of Zul'Aman 

The stronghold of Zul'Aman has stood for millennia as the Amani trolls' 
seat of power and bastion of the fearless, cunning warlord Zul'jin.

Zul'jin has spent several years plotting behind Zul'Aman's walls. 
Furious at the Horde for allowing his hated enemies, the blood elves, to
join its ranks, he eagerly embraced a scheme that the witch doctor 
Malacrass recently proposed: to seal the power of the animal gods within
the bodies of the Amani's strongest warriors.

Now Zul'Aman's army grows more powerful by the day, hungry to exact 
vengeance in the name of its fearless leader, Zul'jin. 


Guild Banks Introduced

The Guild Bank is a shared repository for an entire guild and will be 
accessible through Guild Vault objects near existing banks. The Guild 
Bank will allow players with the appropriate permissions to store items 
and money for use by the rest of the guild.  Permissions to withdraw and
deposit money and items are controlled by the guild leader through the 
guild controls menu.  The Guild Bank is divided up into separate tabs so
that the guild leader may restrict access or group items into distinct 
categories.  
-  Up to 6 purchasable tabs each containing 98 item slots
-  Permissions to view/deposit/withdraw per tab
-  You may use your Guild Bank withdraw limits to pay for item repairs 
  (now enabled on all merchants)
-  Transaction logs of the last 25 actions within each tab, as well as 
   money activity.

Dustwallow Marsh  

Dustwallow Marsh has seen many improvements with the addition of over 50
new quests and a new neutral goblin town called Mudsprocket located in 
the southern part of the zone.  There is also a small quest hub 
featuring a crashed goblin zeppelin, to the east of Tabetha's hut.

Leveling Improvements

Many leveling improvements have been made for the old world.
-  The amount of experience needed to gain a level has been decreased 
   between levels 20 and 60. In addition, the amount of experience 
   granted by quests has been increased between levels 30 and 60.
-  Level 1-60 dungeon quests have had their experience and faction 
   rewards increased.
-  Many elite creatures and quests in the level 1-60 experience have 
   been changed to accommodate solo play.
   
General
-  The latest patch of World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade shows a 
   benefit on today's popular multicore processors like the Intel(r) 
   Core(tm)2 Duo processor family.  The enhanced patch has demonstrated
   higher frame rates by spreading the work across both processor cores.
-  Zul'Aman is a 10-player, level 70 outdoor instance located in the 
   Ghostlands.  Players will be able to confront six new bosses 
   including the Forest Troll Warlord Zul'jin.
-  Guild Banks have been introduced.  The Guild Bank will allow players
   with the appropriate permissions to store items and money for use by 
   the rest of the guild.  
-  Experience: The amount of experience needed to gain a level has been 
   decreased between levels 20 and 60. In addition, the amount of 
   experience granted by quests has been increased between levels 30 and
   60. 
-  All items have had their bonuses to Weapon Skill Rating converted to 
   a new stat called Weapon Expertise Rating.  Each point of Weapon 
   Expertise reduces the chance for your attacks to be dodged or parried
   by .25%.
-  Healing reduction effects will now affect all health drain spells and
   abilities (e.g. Mortal Strike will reduce health gained from Drain 
   Life).
-  Healing: Almost all items and enchantments that provide bonus 
   healing now also provide a smaller number (approximately 1/3) of 
   bonus spell damage. There are a few items and enchantments where this
   was not possible, such as random-stat items and Zul'Gurub 
   enchantments, but this is now the case on virtually all other items. 
-  On Kill Effects: Items and abilities that trigger on killing an enemy
   will no longer trigger on using an ability that kills your pet. 
-  Weapon Skill: All items and abilities that granted weapon skill have
   been changed. In most cases, they were converted to expertise or 
   expertise rating. Ranged attacks do not benefit from expertise, so 
   ranged weapon skill has generally been replaced by critical strike 
   bonuses or hit bonuses. In a few cases, talents have been changed to 
   other effects to avoid granting players excessive amounts of 
   expertise.
-  A new flight path has been added to the Rebel Camp in northern 
   Stranglethorn Vale.
-  Flying units can see ground units and vice versa at any altitude.
-  Players no longer gain the moving AOE radius bonus if they are 
   jumping.
-  Client spell cast requests are now sent to the server even if your 
   player is already casting another spell.  This eliminates the need 
   for /stopcasting in macros to compensate for latency.
-  Vendor Discounts:  All vendors with an associate faction now give 
   discounts at all levels above neutral.
   Friendly: 5% discount
   Honored: 10% discount
   Revered: 15% discount
   Exalted: 20% discount
-  Quest givers who have available daily quests will have a blue 
   exclamation point instead of a yellow one.
-  Pets will try to get behind their targets when engaging in melee 
   combat.
-  You can now obtain a tiny Sporebat pet with exalted Sporeggar faction.
-  An Azure Whelp pet now drops from the blue dragonkin in Azshara.
-  If you are seated and try to use abilities that require you to be 
   standing, you will stand up and use them.  This can be disabled with:
   /console autoStand 0 .

Racial Abilities
-  Dwarf: Gun Specialization now increases chance to critically hit 
   with Guns by 1% rather than increasing weapon skill. 
-  Gnome: Escape Artist cooldown increased to 1 min, 45 sec.
-  Humans: Sword Skill now increases the critical strike chance with 
   swords and two-handed swords by 1%.
-  Humans: Mace Skill now increases the critical strike chance with 
   maces and two-handed maces by 1%.
-  Orcs: Axe Skill now increases the critical strike chance with axes 
   and two-handed axes by 1%.
-  Troll: Bow and Thrown Specialization now increases chance to 
   critically hit with those weapons by 1% rather than increasing weapon
   skill. 

PvP
-  Arenas
   The top ranked team of each battlegroup for each format will receive 
   a new unique title for the end of Season 2 called 
   "Merciless Gladiator".
-  Battlegrounds
   Daily quests have been added targeting a random battleground for that
   day. Look for Alliance Brigadier Generals and Horde Warbringers near 
   your faction's battlemasters in all major capitals.
   Dropping the Flag in a battleground will now result in a debuff that 
   will not allow you to pick up the flag again for 3 seconds.
   Druids who are shapeshifted when they receive the Restoration buff 
   from battlegrounds will now correctly regenerate mana.
   Players will now be able to cast spells for free in the Battleground 
   before it begins.
   Players will now be able to cast spells for free for a few seconds 
   after being resurrected by a Spirit Guide in the Battleground.
   Alterac Valley
     Additional Warmasters no longer report for duty upon destroying an
	 enemy tower.  However, destroying an enemy tower still eliminates 
	 the associated opposing Warmaster.
     All Warmasters are linked to each other and their respective 
	 Generals and can no longer be pulled individually.
     Honor from capturing towers has been increased.
     All Commanders and Lieutenants have left Alterac Valley in search 
	 for other battle opportunities.
     Players will no longer be sent to their starting tunnels on death 
	 unless that team controls no graveyards in the battleground. 
     Many NPCs in Stormpike and Frostwolf holds are no longer elite 
     Bonus Honor in Alterac Valley is now only awarded during the battle
	 for destroying enemy towers and slaying the enemy Captain. Upon 
	 conclusion of the battle, bonus honor is also awarded for intact 
	 towers, a surviving Captain, and for victory in the battle. The 
	 total bonus honor awarded should be similar to the previous total. 
     The Horde and Alliance now have a limited number of reinforcements
	 available in the battle for Alterac Valley. The number of 
	 reinforcements available is reduced upon player death, loss of 
	 towers, and death of Captain Galvangar or Balinda Stonehearth. In 
	 addition, all available reinforcements are lost upon the death of 
	 General Drek'Thar or Vanndar Stormpike. If a team is reduced to 
	 zero reinforcements, the opposing team wins the battle. 
     Towers and Graveyards in Alterac Valley are now captured in 4 
	 minutes (down from 5).
   Eye of the Storm
     The points awarded from capturing the flag in Eye of the Storm is 
	 now increase based on the number of bases the capturing team owns.
   Warsong Gulch, Arathi Basin, Eye of the Storm
     Additional bonus honor is now awarded upon conclusion of the 
	 battle.

Druids
-  Barkskin: It is no longer possible to cast this spell while Cycloned.
-  Challenging Roar: The chance for this ability to land successfully on
   its targets is now increased by hit rating.
-  Cure Poison and Abolish Poison are now usable in Tree of Life Form. 
-  Cure Poison, Abolish Poison and Remove Curse range increased to 40 
   yards. 
-  Entangling Roots: It is no longer possible for multiple Druids to 
   have Entangling Roots on the same target.  In addition, it will now 
   always be removed correctly if multiple Druids overwrite each other’s
   Entangling Roots.
-  Entangling Roots: This ability will no longer be overwritten when the
   new Entangling Roots would do less damage.
-  Feral Attack Power: Items that granted bonus attack power in Cat, 
   Bear, Dire Bear, and Moonkin forms have been re-evaluated. In almost 
   all cases, the attack power on the item has been increased. This 
   change corrects an issue where feral weapon damage was not keeping up
   with other classes in its rate of increase. 
-  Feral Charge:  It is now possible for the interrupt and root effects 
   from this ability to be resisted separately.
-  Force of Nature: This ability will no longer automatically break 
   stealth on victims in its casting area.  Nearby stealthed characters 
   may still be attacked if they are too close to the summoned Treants.
-  Growl: The chance for this ability to land successfully on its target
   is now increased by hit rating.
-  Heart of the Wild: This talent no longer provides 4/8/12/16/20% bonus
   Strength in Cat Form. Instead it provides 2/4/6/8/10% bonus attack 
   power. 
-  Hibernate: This spell will now always be removed correctly if 
   multiple Druids overwrite each other's Hibernate.
-  Intensity (Restoration) increased to 10/20/30% mana regeneration.
-  Ignite: This talent is no lingered triggered by damage dealt by 
   Molten Armor.
-  Natural Perfection (Restoration) - Now also grants the Natural 
   Perfection effect after being critically hit, reducing all damage 
   taken by 1/3/5% for 8 seconds.  Stacks up to 3 times.
-  Natural Perfection: This talent can now trigger while the Druid is 
   sitting.
-  Primal Fury: This talent will now be learned correctly even if 
   purchased while the Druid is dead.
-  Rebirth cooldown reduced to 20 minutes, from 30 minutes. 
-  Remove Curse is now usable in Moonkin Form. 
-  Shapeshifting Spells: Some of these spells were causing additional 
   unintended threat. That additional unintended threat has been removed.
-  Soothe Animal: This spell now properly consumes Nature's Swiftness.
-  Tranquility now gains additional benefit from spell damage and 
   healing bonuses. 
-  Tree of Life: It is no longer possible to have the bonus healing aura
   from this ability while not actually in Tree of Life Form.
-  If you are in a shapeshift form and try to use an ability that may 
   only be used in caster form, you will leave the form and use that 
   ability.  This means that you can shift from one form to another in 
   one action.  If you don’t have mana to shift form, you will get an 
   error message and remain in your current form.  This can be disabled
   with /console autoUnshift 0 

Hunters
-  Aimed Shot (Marksmanship) now reduces healing done to that target by
   50% for 10 seconds, shot time reduced by 0.5 seconds.
-  Arcane Shot (Ranks 6 and above) now dispel 1 Magic effect in addition
   to their normal damage.
-  Explosive Trap: The initial damage dealt by this trap is now also 
   increased by 10% of your ranged attack power. 
-  Expose Weakness: The triggered effect from this talent will no longer
   use up charges of Misdirection.
-  Immolation Trap: The total damage dealt by this trap is now also 
   increased by 10% of your ranged attack power. 
-  Misdirection: This spell will now always be removed correctly if 
   multiple Hunters overwrite each other's Misdirection.
-  Misdirection: If a Hunter attempts to use this ability on a target 
   which already has an active Misdirection, the spell will fail to 
   apply due to a more powerful spell already being in effect.  This 
   will not trigger the cooldown or cost any mana.
-  Readiness: This talent now finishes the cooldown on Kill Command.
-  Serpent Sting, Immolation Trap and Explosive Trap all gain additional
   damage based on ranged attack power. 
-  Serpent Sting: The total damage dealt by this sting is now also 
   increased by 10% of your ranged attack power. 
-  Steady Shot: Tooltip clarified to indicate base weapon damage is used
   in the damage calculation.
-  Trueshot Aura (Marksmanship) no longer costs mana to cast and will 
   last until cancelled.
-  Wyvern Sting (Survival) is now instant cast and has a maximum 
   duration of 10 seconds in PvP. 
-  Wyvern Sting: This ability will no longer be overwritten by lower 
   ranks of Wyvern Sting.

Mages
-  Arcane Intellect and Arcane Brilliance mana costs reduced.
-  Arcane Meditation (Arcane) increased to 10/20/30% mana regeneration.
-  Arcane Missiles: Players will no longer get strange error messages 
   when casting this spell at evading targets.  The spell will simply 
   fail. 
-  Detect Magic removed. All players may now see their target's 
   beneficial effects at all times. 
-  Evocation now regenerates 15% of total mana every 2 seconds rather 
   than increase Spirit based regeneration. 
-  Fire Ward and Frost Ward now gain additional benefit from spell 
   damage bonuses. Base absorb values of ranks 5 and 6 have been reduced. 
-  Ice Barrier now gains additional benefit from spell damage bonuses. 
   Base absorb values of ranks 5 and 6 have been reduced. 
-  Improved Fireball: The reduction in damage coefficient caused by this
   talent has been removed. 
-  Improved Frostbolt: The reduction in damage coefficient caused by 
   this talent has been removed. 
-  Polymorph: It is no longer possible to polymorph a player and have 
   that player remain mounted.  In addition, it will now always be 
   removed correctly if multiple Mages overwrite each other's Polymorph.
-  Portal Spells: Portal spells to capital cities can no longer be cast 
   in battlegrounds.
-  Remove Curse range increased to 40 yards.
-  (NEW SPELL) Ritual of Refreshment available on trainers at level 70.
-  Spellsteal: It is no longer possible via this spell to get two 
   Forbearance debuffs at the same time.

Paladins
-  Blessing of Light: Lower ranks of Flash of Light and Holy Light are 
   now properly penalized when used with this Blessing.
-  Cleanse and Purify range increased to 40 yards.
-  Crusader Strike (Retribution) cooldown reduced from 10 to 6 seconds.
-  Divine Favor: When this ability is cast immediately after a critical
   heal, it will no longer be removed incorrectly. 
-  Exorcism mana cost reduced. 
-  Fanaticism (Retribution) now also reduces threat caused by all 
   actions by 6/12/18/24/30%.
-  Hammer of Wrath mana cost reduced. 
-  Holy Wrath mana cost reduced. 
-  Improved Seal of the Crusader (Retribution) benefits folded into the 
   base spell. This talent now gives the benefits of the Sanctified 
   Crusader talent instead. 
-  Judgement of Light: The combat log will now show the health gained 
   from.
   rank 5 of this ability as Judgement of Light instead of Seal of Light.
-  Judgement of Wisdom: It is no longer possible for the mana energize 
   effect to trigger off of reapplication of the Judgement of Wisdom.
-  Paladin seals no longer have a low chance to be dispelled if you have
   3 points in Sanctified Seals.
-  Precision (Protection) now increases spell hit chance as well.
-  Pursuit of Justice (Retribution) is now 3 ranks and increases 
   movement speed by 5/10/15% and also reduces the chance you'll be hit 
   by spells by 1/2/3%. 
-  Righteous Defense: The chance for this ability to land successfully 
   on its targets is now increased by hit rating.
-  Sanctified Crusader (Retribution) renamed Sanctified Seals, which now
   increases your chance to critically hit with all spells and melee 
   attacks by 1/2/3% and reduces the chance your Seals will be dispelled
   by 33/66/100%. 
-  Seal of Vengeance: The bonus damage this ability dealt when the 
   debuff is fully stacked on the target was incorrectly too low.
   It is now increased.
-  Spiritual Attunement: This ability will now gain mana properly from 
   Vampiric Embrace heals.
-  Vengeance (Retribution) duration increased from 15 to 30 seconds. 
-  Vindication (Retribution) frequency and duration increased and now 
   reduces all attributes by 5/10/15%, not just Strength and Agility. 
-  Weapon Expertise (Protection) renamed Combat Expertise, now increases
   expertise by 1/2/3/4/5 and total Stamina by 2/4/6/8/10%.

Priests
-  Blessed Recovery: This talent can now trigger while the Priest is 
   sitting.
-  Blessed Resilience: This talent can now trigger while the Priest is 
   sitting.
-  Chastise (NEW) is now available to Dwarf and Draenei priests at level
   20. Chastise causes Holy damage and incapacitates the target for 2 
   seconds. 
-  Circle of Healing: The base amount of healing from this spell has 
   been reduced along with increasing the bonus it receives from bonus 
   healing effects. Characters with more than 1338 healing will see 
   their Circle of Healing heal for more than previous patches. 
   Characters with less than 1338 healing will see their Circle of 
   Healing heal for less.
-  Cure Disease and Abolish Disease range increased to 40 yards.
-  Divine Spirit: It is no longer possible for a target to 
   simultaneously have Divine Spirit rank 5 and Prayer of Spirit Rank 1 
   icons showing at the same time.
-  Elune's Grace (Night Elf) effect changed to reduce chance to be hit 
   by melee and ranged attacks by 20% for 15 seconds. There is now only 
   1 rank of the spell. 
-  Fear Ward is now available to all priests at level 20. Duration 
   reduced to 3 minutes, cooldown increased to 3 minutes. 
-  Fixed a bug where the global cooldown was triggered when shifting out
   of Shadowform.
-  Focused Will (NEW Discipline Talent) - After taking a critical hit 
   you gain the Focused Will effect, reducing all damage taken by 1/3/5%
   and increasing healing effects on you by 4/7/10% for 8 seconds.  
   Stacks up to 3 times.
-  Holy Fire: The tooltip on rank 4 has been adjusted.
-  Inner Focus will now properly affect Lightwell Rank 4.
-  Inner Focus: This effect is now properly consumed by casting Mind 
   Soothe.
-  Meditation (Discipline) increased to 10/20/30% mana regeneration.
-  Mind Soothe: This spell will now consume Inner Focus.
-  Mind Vision: Now consumes the Inner Focus buff when cast.
-  Pain Suppression (Discipline Talent) is now usable on friendly 
   targets, instantly reduces the target's threat by 5%, reduces damage 
   taken by 40% and its cooldown has been reduced to 2 minutes. 
-  Prayer of Healing, Circle of Healing and Holy Nova (healing effect) 
   now gain additional benefit from spell damage and healing bonuses. 
-  Power Word: Fortitude, Divine Spirit, Prayer of Fortitude and Prayer 
   of Spirit mana costs reduced. 
-  Power Word: Shield now gains additional benefit from spell damage and
   healing bonuses. Base absorb values of ranks 10, 11 and 12 have been 
   reduced.
-  Prayer of Mending: This ability will no longer be overwritten when 
   the new Prayer of Mending would do less healing.
-  Shackle Undead: This spell will now always be removed correctly if 
   multiple Priests overwrite each other's Shackle Undead.
-  Shadow Word: Death: Resilience no longer reduces the backlash damage
   from this spell.   
-  Starshards (Night Elf) is no longer channeled, costs 0 mana, is now a
   Magic effect, lasts 15 seconds, causes damage every 3 seconds and has
   a 30 second cooldown.
-  Starshards: The damage per tick of this ability no longer changes 
   during the duration of the effect.
-  If you are in Shadowform and try to use an ability that my not be 
   used in Shadowform, you will leave Shadowform and use that ability. 
   This can be disabled with /console autoUnshift 0 
-  Silent resolve: This talent now benefits the triggered buffs from 
   Blessed Resilience, Blessed Recovery, and Martyrdom.

Rogues
-  All poisons will now enchant the weapon for 1 hour, increased from 30
   minutes.
-  Blade Flurry: This ability now works correctly in all cases with 
   shielded targets.
-  Blind is now a physical (no longer a poison) attack. Reagent 
   requirement removed. Now shares the same diminish category as Cyclone
   and is now diminished in PvE as well as PvP. 
-  Cheat Death (Subtlety) chance to trigger increased to 33/66/100% and
   now also causes the rogue to take 90% less damage for 3 seconds when
   the effect triggers.  This effect cannot occur more than once per 
   minute.
-  Cold Blood: Fixed an issue where this buff was sometimes getting 
   removed when an attack missed.
-  Dirty Deeds now also increases special ability damage against enemies
   below 35% health. 
-  Dirty Deeds:  This talent will no longer interfere with getting the 
   bonus damage from the Druid ability Mangle on Rupture and Garrote.
-  Fleet Footed (Assassination) now increases movement speed by 8/15%.
-  Hemorrhage: This ability now does 125% of weapon damage.
-  Kick: Interrupting a channeled spell with this ability will now 
   always properly prevent casting spells from the same spell school for
   5 sec. 
-  Remorseless Attacks: This talent can no longer be triggered by the 
   death of a rogue’s target dummy or other pet.
-  Riposte is now subject to diminishing returns in PvP.
-  Rogue's Deadly Throw missile speed increased significantly and snare 
   duration increased slightly.
-  Ruthlessness now only affects melee finishing moves. It no longer 
   works with Deadly Throw.
-  Sap: Multiple Saps placed by multiple Rogues will now be handled 
   correctly in all cases.
-  Shadowstep (Subtlety) can now be used at any time, not only while 
   stealthed. Now increases the damage and reduces the threat caused by 
   the next damaging ability. Cooldown increased to 30 seconds. Range 
   changed to 25 yards. 
-  If you are in Stealth and try to use an ability that may not be used 
   while stealthed, you will leave stealth and use that ability. 
   This can be disabled with /console autoUnshift 0 

Shaman
-  Chain Heal: The tooltips on ranks 1-3 have been adjusted.
-  Chain Lightning cast time reduced to 2.0 (from 2.5), mana costs 
   reduced, benefit from spell damage reduced appropriately. 
-  Cure Poison and Cure Disease range increased to 40 yards.
-  Earth Shield: This spell will now always be removed correctly if 
   multiple Shaman overwrite each other's Earth Shield.
-  Earth Shield: This ability will no longer be overwritten when the new
   Earth Shield would do less healing.
-  Earth Shock: Interrupting a channeled spell with this spell will now
   always properly prevent casting spells from the same spell school 
   for 2 sec.
-  Elemental Focus (Elemental) now reduces the mana cost of the next 2 
   damage spells by 40%. 
-  Elemental Mastery: It is no longer possible to get two consecutive 
   guaranteed critical strikes from using this ability.
-  Eye of the Storm: This talent can now trigger while the Shaman is 
   sitting.
-  Frost Shock is no longer subject to diminishing returns. 
-  Grounding Totem: This totem is now destroyed upon redirecting any 
   spell to itself. 
-  Lightning Bolt cast time reduced to 2.5 (from 3.0 where applicable),
   mana costs reduced, benefit from spell damage reduced appropriately. 
-  Lightning Mastery (Elemental) cast time reduction reduced to 
   .1/.2/.3/.4/.5 seconds. 
-  Lightning Overload (Elemental) now has a 4/8/12/16/20% chance to 
   occur and the additional spell causes half damage and no additional 
   threat. 
-  Mana Spring Totem effect increased. 
-  Mental Quickness (Enhancement) now also increases spell damage and
   healing equal to 10/20/30% of your attack power.
-  Two-Handed Axes and Two-Handed Maces are now trainable by all Shaman 
   at the appropriate weapon masters. The Enhancement talent has been 
   replaced by Shamanistic Focus. 
-  Shamanistic Focus (New Enhancement Talent): After landing a melee 
   critical strike, you enter a Focused state. The Focused state reduces
   the mana cost of your next Shock spell by 60%. 
-  Shamanistic Rage (Enhancement) now also reduces all damage taken by 
   30% for the duration. 
-  Spirit Weapons (Enhancement) threat reduction increased to 30% from 
   15%.
-  Rockbiter Weapon: For ranks 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 the increased damage 
   resulting from this enchantment has been reduced slightly to match 
   the intended numbers given in the tooltip. Ranks 1, 2, 3, and 9 are 
   unchanged. 
-  Water Shield: This spell no longer costs any mana to cast and its 
   duration has been shortened. At the end of its duration, it now 
   grants mana for any remaining globes. In addition, the mana granted 
   per globe has been substantially increased. 
-  Windfury Weapon: This enchantment can no longer be triggered while 
   you are disarmed.

Warlock
-  Banish can no longer be cast on targets tapped by other players or 
   groups.
-  Conflagrate: The Immolate debuff will now always be removed correctly
   when this spell is cast.   
-  Drain Life and Siphon Life now reduce the amount healed when the 
   warlock is affected by healing reducing effects (e.g. Mortal Strike,
   Wounding Poison).
-  Hellfire: This spell will no longer cause enemy spells to increase 
   casting time or reduce channel time. It will also no longer prevent 
   flag captures in Battlegrounds.
-  Nether Protection (Destruction) now has a new, more distinct visual 
   effect. 
-  Ritual of Souls now takes significantly less time to cast and 
   complete. 
-  Seed of Corruption detonation will now obey line of sight. 
-  Shadow Embrace: This talent's effect can no longer trigger other 
   effects.
-  Shadow Ward: This spell now gains additional benefit from spell 
   damage bonuses. Base absorb value of rank 4 has been reduced.
-  Soul Siphon (Affliction) now increases damage by 2/4% and no longer 
   affects Drain Mana.
-  Soul Siphon (Affliction): If a Warlock already has a particular spell
   cast on a target, reapplying before its duration ends will no longer 
   grant an additional bonus.
-  Unstable Affliction: The silence from this ability is now subject to 
   diminishing returns.

Warrior
-  Blood Craze: This talent can now trigger while the Warrior is sitting.
-  Challenging Shout: The chance for this ability to land successfully 
   on its targets is now increased by hit rating.
-  Charge will work more often when targets are up against unpathable 
   areas like walls and poles.
-  Defiance (Protection) now also grants 2/4/6 weapon expertise.   
-  Devastate (Protection) now combines the effects of Sunder Armor into 
   its effect. It is also now affected by all talents and items that 
   affect Sunder Armor.
-  Disarm is now subject to diminishing returns in PvP.
-  Enrage: This talent can now trigger while the Warrior is sitting.
-  Improved Berserker Stance (Fury) now also reduces all threat caused 
   while in Berserker Stance by 2/4/6/8/10%
-  Improved Intercept and Weapon Mastery have swapped locations in the 
   talent trees.
-  Intervene will no longer place you in combat.
-  Hamstring now has a 10 second duration when used on PvP targets. 
-  Mace Specialization (Arms) now has a reduced chance to occur but 
   generates 7 rage instead of 6. 
-  Pummel: Interrupting a channeled spell with this ability will now 
   always properly prevent casting spells from the same spell school 
   for 4 sec.
-  Shield Bash: Interrupting a channeled spell with this ability will 
   now always properly prevent casting spells from the same spell school
   for 6 sec.
-  Shield Slam (Protection) now always tries to dispel one Magic effect 
   on the target.
-  Sweeping Strikes and Deathwish have swapped locations in the talent 
   trees.
-  Sweeping Strikes (Fury) now lasts 10 seconds and affects your next 10
   swings.
-  Sweeping Strikes: This ability now works correctly in all cases with
   shielded targets.
-  Tactical Mastery: This talent also now grants greatly increased 
   threat from Mortal Strike and Bloodthirst when in Defensive Stance.
-  Taunt: The chance for this ability to land successfully on its target
   is now increased by hit rating.
-  Weapon Mastery (Arms) now reduces duration of Disarm effects against
   you by 25/50% rather than giving you a 50% chance to avoid or full 
   immunity to Disarm effects. 
-  Whirlwind: This ability now strikes with both weapons when a Warrior 
   is dual-wielding.

Professions
-  All primary profession trainers outside of capitals (Alchemy, 
   Blacksmithing, Enchanting, Engineering, Leatherworking, Tailoring) 
   have been changed to train up to Artisan level (skill level 300) in 
   their respective professions.
-  The capital cities now possess Artisan level trainers for the primary
   professions they support, and are surrounded by their newly-dubbed 
   Apprentices where applicable.  Please visit your local Master trainer
   when you wish to train.
-  Alchemy
   Added a sound for when a cauldron is created.
   Added a new potion to alchemy trainers: Mad Alchemist's Potion. This
   new potion requires Alchemy to consume.
-  Blacksmithing
   A new world drop recipe for an Adamantite Weapon Chain has been 
   added.  This new weapon chain both reduces disarm duration and 
   increases parry rating.
   Sharpening Stones and Weightstones now last 1 hour.
-  Cooking
   Daily cooking quests are now available from The Rokk in Shattrath 
   City!  In addition to gold, you can receive random cooking reagents 
   and new recipes as a reward for completing these quests.
   Reduced the maximum skill obtainable from recipes between 200 and 
   300. This does not include Outland recipes.
-  Enchanting: 
   Duration of wizard and mana oils created by enchanters has been 
   increased.
   The Surefooted enchantment now requires Fel Iron Rod (was Runed 
   Eternium Rod).
   Added a new enchant shield recipe to trainers that increases 
   resilience.
-  Engineering: 
   Cogspinner Gearcutter in Ironforge and Sovik in Orgrimmar now sell 
   the schematic for the Steam Tonk Controller in a limited supply.
   Engineers can now create incredible new flying machines! Find Niobe 
   Whizzlespark in Shadowmoon Valley to learn these fantastic new plans.
   Engineering potion injectors no longer require engineering skill to 
   use.
   Jumper Cables XL is no longer a trinket.
   Materials required to create the Steam Tonk Controller have been 
   reduced.  To reflect the reduced requirements, the maximum skill gain
   has also been reduced somewhat.
   Plans for a new Field Repair Bot are rumored to belong to a select 
   few Gan'arg Analyzers in Blade's Edge Mountains.
   Plans for a new arrow making device can be found from Sunfury Archers. 
   The plans for adamantite shells now create an Adamantite Shell 
   Machine. The machine creates 200 high quality bullets at a time, 
   with 5 charges per item.
   The Crashin' Thrashin' Robot is now Bind on Use rather than Bind on 
   Acquire so non-engineers can use them as well.
   The materials required for the Field Repair Bot 74A have been 
   simplified.
-  Fishing: 
   Players can now track fishing nodes. This ability is 
   learned from a journal sometimes found in crates obtained through 
   fishing. 
   New fish can now be caught in Zul'Aman and Deadwind Pass. Recipes 
   for preparing these new fish are obtained through the daily cooking 
   quests. 
   Fishing difficulty reduced for some areas in Nagrand.
   You can now fish in Ironforge again.
-  Herbalism
   Picking herbs will no longer cause effects on items to trigger.
   Fel Blossoms are now unbound, but have an additional requirement of 
   275 herbalism to use.   
-  Jewelcrafting:
   A new skyfire meta gem recipe can be obtained from the Coilskar Siren
   of Shadowmoon Valley. This new meta gem increases critical strike 
   rating and critical strike damage with spells.
-  Leatherworking: 
   Stylin' hats no longer require Zhevra leather. 
   Greatly increased the radius of the Drums of Battle, Drums of 
   Restoration, Drums of Speed, and Drums of War. 
   Increased the range at which you can gain leatherworking skill from 
   crafting drums.
   Removed the casting time from the Drums of Battle, Drums of 
   Restoration, Drums of Speed, and Drums of War. 
   Slightly increased the radius of Drums of Panic. 
   Reduced the casting time of Drums of Panic and added a global 
   cooldown equal to the casting time. 
   Reduced the faction required to obtain Drums of Battle and Drums of 
   Panic.
   Drums of Speed and Drums of Restoration are no longer world drop 
   recipes, and can now be obtained from the Mag'har and Kurenai faction
   vendors with revered standing. 
   A new recipe is available from Grand Master leatherworking trainers 
   to create glove reinforcements, providing a substantial armor bonus. 
   Reinforcements are a permanent enchantment and cannot be placed with 
   other permanent enchantments. 
   New recipes are available from Grand Master leatherworking trainers 
   to make 20 slot quivers and ammo pouches. 
   New recipes are available from the Honor Hold, Thrallmar, and Lower 
   City quartermasters to create 24 slot quivers and ammo pouches.
   A new recipe is available from Grand Master leatherworking trainers 
   to make a 20 slot bag to hold leatherworking supplies. 
   The ogres in the barrier hills are rumored to have a pattern for a 
   24 slot bag to hold leatherworking supplies.
-  Mining
   Mining will no longer cause effects on items to trigger.

Items
-  All old world dungeon bosses have had their loot revisited.  
   Players will now find that the loot dropped inside instances will be
   of Superior (blue) quality.
-  Arena Relics: New relics have been added to support all talent trees
   for relic users. In addition, most of the arena-system relics have 
   been renamed so there is a more consistent naming convention. 
-  Arakkoa Feather:  This item can now be sold to a vendor.
-  Ashtongue Talisman of Lethality: This item will no longer trigger 
   when the victim of your finishing move is immune to that attack. 
-  Ashtongue Talisman of Vision:  The mana granted by this trinket has 
   been increased.
-  Ashtongue Talisman of Vision: This item will no longer receive 
   multiple chances to trigger per cast of Stormstrike.
-  Ashtongue Talisman of Zeal: The damage over time affect from 
   judgments has been adjusted so that it will work properly. It now 
   has a shorter duration, and is not refreshed by melee attacks. 
-  Ashtongue Talisman of Zeal: The damage over time effect from this 
   trinket is no longer refreshed by autoattacks and does not charge 
   mana.
-  Atiesh: This item can no longer open portals in battlegrounds.
-  Band of the Eternal Restorer: As this item now provides some bonus 
   spell damage, spell damage effects can trigger it.  In addition, 
   healing over time effects can now trigger it when they could not 
   before.
-  Band of Eternity will now make the correct sound when moved in a 
   player's inventory. 
-  Black Bow of the Betrayer: The triggered effect from this item will 
   no longer use up charges of Misdirection.  In addition, the triggered
   effect will no longer break crowd control effects.
-  Bloodsea Brigand's Vest will now make the correct sound when moved in
   a player's inventory. 
-  Boundless Agony can now be disenchanted.
-  Cataclysm Raiment: The bonuses on this set have been adjusted. 
-  Cooldown removed from Noggenfogger Elixirs.  The shrink effect will 
   no longer stack with other shrink effects.  
-  Cowl of Benevolence will now make the correct sound when moved in a 
   player's inventory. 
-  Crystalforge Raiment: The bonuses on this set have been adjusted. 
-  Darkmoon Card: Vengeance: This item will no longer trigger from 
   environmental damage. 
-  Dropped items that were rings/trinkets/one handed weapons that were 
   previously unique are now unique-equipped. That means that you can 
   have more than one of those items, but you can only have a single one
   of them equipped.
-  Enriched Terocone Juice: This item now properly provides mana 
   regeneration no matter how it is used.
-  Essence of Death now drops from level 57-60 non-elite undead in the 
   Eastern Plaguelands.
-  Eye of the Dead: As this item now provides some bonus spell damage, 
   spell damage effects can now consume its charges.
-  Felsteel Chests: The loot from these chests has been improved.
-  The Felsworn Gas Mask will now work when you put it on while mounted.
-  Free Action Potion: The buff from this potion can no longer be 
   dispelled or taken via Spellsteal.
-  Gladiator's armor pieces of like nature from various seasons will now
   all meet the requirements for their shared set bonus.  This means if 
   you are using 2 pieces of Season 1 gear and 2 pieces of Season 2 gear
   of the same design you will now have your 4 piece set bonus.
-  Gladiator's Chain Gauntlets: The bonus damage on these gloves has 
   been increased from 4% to 5%. 
-  Grand Marshal's Dragonhide Helm: The intellect on this item was 
   increased slightly to match the equivalent Horde-only item. 
-  Hallowed Wands: These items no longer work on Druids who are 
   shapeshifted.
-  Hallowed Wands: These wands no longer function in the Old Hillsbrad 
   Caverns of Time event.
-  Hallow’s End Pumpkin Treats: The larger and oranger buff no longer 
   causes Battle Elixirs to be removed and can stack with them.
-  Hand of Antu'sul: The effect that triggers from this item will no 
   longer cause a cooldown on Warrior's Thunderclap ability. 
-  Libram of Saints Departed:  This relic now functions properly again.
-  Lightfathom Scepter will now make the correct sound when moved in a
   player's inventory.
-  Lightning Capacitor: This item now has a 2.5 second cooldown on 
   acquiring Electrical Charges.
-  Lockboxes will now display the numerical lockpicking skill required 
   to open them. 
-  Low Level Cloth Items: All agility and strength on low-level cloth 
   items has been replaced with other stats, usually bonus spell damage,
   but also sometimes other stats beneficial to mana users. 
-  Merciless Gladiator's Chain Gauntlets: The bonus damage on these 
   gloves has been increased from 4% to 5%. 
-  Mr. Pinchy: This item no longer destroys itself when its charges run 
   out.  This resolves some bugs that occurred when its final charge was
   used. 
-  Mystical Skyfire Diamond:  A cooldown has been added to this item's 
   effect, but the chance for it to trigger has been increased.
-  Noggenfogger Elixir: Consuming this potion now has a shared 3 second 
   cooldown with other types of non-combat potions.
-  Ogri'la Faction Vendor: This vendor now sells potions useable 
   anywhere for a large number of Apexis Shards. 
-  Ogri’la Reputation Rewards: All epic and superior quality items are 
   now disenchantable.
-  Overseer Disguise: It is no longer possible via use of this item to 
   be on a mount while in Moonkin Form or Tree of Life Form.
-  Pendant of the Violet Eye: This trinket will no longer fire multiple 
   times from a single casting of some Paladin spells.
-  PvP Trinkets: Insignia of the Alliance, Insignia of the Horde, 
   Medallion of the Alliance, and Medallion of the Horde now clear the 
   debuff from Judgement of Justice.
-  Shadowmoon Grunts will no longer drop Black Temple quality loot.
-  Shiffar's Nexus Horn: Many spells and abilities can now trigger this 
   item that were unable to before. 
-  Skyshatter Raiment: The four piece bonus is now being applied 
   correctly and the two piece bonus will affect the correct spells.
-  Tidefury Raiment: The additional mana granted to Water Shield by this
   set has been increased. 
-  Tome of Fiery Redemption: This item no longer can be triggered by 
   casting blessings. 
-  Totem of the Thunderhead: The additional mana granted to Water Shield
   by this totem has been increased. 
-  Unstable Flask of the Sorcerer: This flask will now provide the bonus
   to healing specified in its tooltip.
-  Vambraces of Ending will now make the correct sound when moved in a 
   player's inventory. 

Dungeons and Raids
-  Players that complete the attunement quests for Tempest Keep and 
   Coilfang Resevoir may now choose to display a new title, 
   "'character name' Champion of the Naaru."
-  The Requirement for Heroic Keys has been lowered to Honored.
-  Elite mobs outside of pre-Burning Crusade dungeons have been changed 
   to non-elite.
-  The level ranges of pre-Burning Crusade dungeons have been adjusted 
   to a narrower range. 
-  Meeting stone level requirements, the Looking for Group system, and 
   quests have been adjusted to match the new dungeon level ranges.
-  Auchenai Crypts 
   Wandering Ghosts are now neutral to players 
   Summoned Ghosts now take longer to summon in.
-  Auchindoun: Shadow Labyrinth
   Blackheart the Inciter: This stun associated with this creature’s 
   charge ability will now properly be considered a stun for talents, 
   abilities, and items that interact with stuns.
-  Black Temple
   High Nethermancer Zerevor's Blizzard and Flamestrike will now last 
   their full duration.
-  Auchindoun: Sethekk Halls
   Mobs inside Sethekk Halls will now continue to award Lower City 
   reputation into Exalted. 
   The Shadow Labyrinth Key can now be looted from the Talon King's 
   Coffer next to Talon King Ikiss in the Sethekk Halls.
-  Caverns of Time: Battle of Mount Hyjal
   Increased the reputation awarded for killing Archimonde in Hyjal 
   Summit.
-  Hellfire Citadel: Hellfire Ramparts
   The Reinforced Fel Iron Chest can now only be looted by players who 
   are present during some portion of a successful attempt of the 
   Vazruden and Nazan encounter.  In addition, on Heroic difficulty the 
   chest now contains a Badge of Justice for each player present.
-  Hellfire Citadel: Magtheridon's Lair
   Mind Exhaustion is not applied until Magtheridon is successfully 
   banished.
-  Karazhan
   The number of creatures that must be killed in the Karazhan Servants
   Quarters area before a miniboss spawns has been reduced.
   Phase hounds in Karazhan will now phase out less frequently.
   Coldmist Widows no longer wipe threat when casting Poison Bolt volley.
   Karazhan Chess Event: The Dust Covered Chest can now only be looted 
   by players who are nearby when the event is completed successfully. 
   In addition, the chest now contains 2 Badges of Justice for each 
   player present.
   Wrath of the Titans will no longer cause Shackle Undead to break.
-  Tempest Keep
   The Blood Elves that patrol the Tempest Bridge no longer patrol 
   directly into Prince Kael'thas Sunstrider's chamber.
   The use of Ice Block, Divine Shield, Cloak of Shadows, and other 
   similar spells and abilities will no longer prematurely detonate High
   Astromancer Solarian’s Wrath of the Astromancer spell.
   Kael'thas
      All four advisors have had their health reduced by 10%.
      All of the summoned weapons have had their health reduced by 10%.
   Al'ar
      The ability "Meteor" has been renamed to "Dive Bomb".
   Mechanar
      Nethermancer Sepethrea's Frost Attack now reduces movement speed 
	  by 25% rather than 50%.
	  The Mechanar: The Cache of the Legion can now only be looted by 
	  players who are present during some portion of a successful 
	  attempt of the Gatewatcher Gyro-Kill and Gatewatcher Iron-Hand 
	  encounters.  In addition, on Heroic difficulty Gatewatcher 
	  Gyro-Kill and Gatewatcher Iron-Hand no longer drop Badges of 
	  Justice.  Instead, the Cache of the Legion contains a Badge of 
	  Justice for each player present.

Quests
-  New random Daily Dungeon quests have been added for both the heroic 
   and non-heroic five-person Outland dungeons, as well as for the 
   5-person Caverns of Time instances.  Each day both a single heroic 
   and a single non-heroic dungeon are randomly targeted by these 
   quests.  The Consortium quest givers can be located in Shattrath's 
   Lower City
-  Quest givers who have available daily quests will have a blue 
   exclamation point instead of a yellow one.
-  Aether rays can now be wrangled earlier. 
-  Dustwallow Marsh
   Many new quests have been added to the zone.
   The Steamwheedle Cartel have just completed building the new town of 
   Mudsprocket in south west Dustwallow Marsh.
-  Level 1-60 dungeon quests have had their experience and faction 
   rewards increased.
-  Many elite creatures and quests in the level 1-60 experience have 
   been changed to accommodate solo play.
-  Nutral, the flight master in Shattrath City, now has a quest for 
   characters who are level 70 and do not yet have a riding skill of 
   225. The quest will direct a character to visit the appropriate 
   riding instructor in Shadowmoon Valley so that the player will know 
   where they can purchase the skill necessary to use a flying mount.
-  The icon for the Charged Crystal Focus has been changed.
-  The range of the Battery Recharging Blaster used in the quest, 
   "Recharging the Batteries" has been increased.
-  The Repolarized Magneto Sphere now only functions within the Blade's 
   Edge Mountains. 
-  Upon completion of the Ghostlands quest, "A Little Dash of 
   Seasoning", if a character still has the Apothecary's Poison; it will
   be removed from their inventory. 

User Interface
-  The Auction House UI has been much improved. The useless categories 
   have been removed (Plate-Cloak for instance) and a number of 
   additional sub categories have been added. In addition, many items 
   have had their category changed so that they make more sense.
-  The Auction house time periods have been changed.  Now items can be 
   put up for sale for 12, 24, or 48 hours.  The option to put up items 
   for 8 hours has been removed.
-  Sorting of auction house searches has been simplified so you can only
   sort by one column, and automatic sub-sorts have been created for 
   those columns to be as useful as possible.  In addition, sorting is 
   now done on the server so as you page thru results, items will appear
   to be sorted across the entire results instead of just the page 
   you’re looking at.
-  The Battle Map has been renamed to the Zone Map and can be turned on
   for any zone rather than just PvP objective zones.  There is now a 
   drop down in the world map screen that allows you to choose when the
   zone map should display.
-  Items that have cooldowns will now display the base cooldown time in
   the item tooltip.
-  All players now have a tracking bubble on their minimap. From that 
   menu you can select a specific type of vendor or npc to look for or 
   you can select a specific tracking type if your character has 
   tracking. Yes this means that hunters can take all of those tracking 
   buttons off of their action bars. 
-  Game objects that you can interact with will now sparkle and 
   display their name over the object to make them more obvious.
-  Questgiving objects will now display an exclamation point above them 
   when they have a quest for you.  Quest completion objects will 
   display a question mark.
-  Items with Metagems in them will now display the gems required to 
   activate the metagem and whether those requirements have been met on 
   the item tooltip.
-  When you take damage and have a full screen UI up, the edges of the 
   screen will flash red so you know you are under attack.
-  Inspect distance has been increased to 30 yards.
-  When you inspect another player, you can now see their talent choices
   as well as their equipment.
-  There are now options for displaying health and mana values on your 
   health/mana bars for you/your party/your target  and to display that 
   information either as percentages or as numbers.
-  When you are possessing a target (Priest Mind Control, Eyes of the 
   Beast, using a Steam Tonk, etc), you now get their action bar as your
   primary action bar rather than having a mini action bar above your 
   normal action bar.
-  The Mind Control and Possession action bar has been revamped. 
-  You can now send up to 12 items in a single mail message.
-  When you have an outgoing mail open, you can right-click on items to
   attach them to that outgoing mail.
-  When you have a trade window open, you can right-click an item to 
   move it to the trade window.
-  When you have unopened mail, you can mouse over the recent mail icon 
   and get the name of the people who most recently sent you the mail.
-  When you speak with an NPC with a single function (Banker, Flight 
   Master, Etc) and who has no other gossip options or quests you will 
   go straight to their functional pane rather than to the gossip pane.
   Most importantly this means that clicking on a flight master will 
   bring up the flight path map directly rather than the gossip pane 
   with the option to bring up the flight path map.
-  Quests that are much below your level will now have the tag 
   (Low Level) in the gossip pane attached to the quest.  This will 
   make it easier to tell which quest to accept when a quest giver has 
   both low and high level quests.
-  You can now set the loot threshold (/threshold) with a word as well 
   as the loot threshold number for an instance-
   /threshold Epic- also sets the party loot threshold to Epic items or
   better quality
   /threshold Rare-sets the party loot threshold to Rare items or better
   quality
-  Corpses that belong to someone in your party, but that you cannot 
   loot will say in the corpse mouseover who has loot rights on that 
   corpse. This will help skinners who want to know who to talk to in 
   order to skin their corpse, as well as master looters when special 
   loot drops on a normal monster. Everyone will then see that there is 
   a monster that the master looter has loot rights on.
-  When an item drops that you cannot loot due to uniqueness or other 
   factor, you will get a chat message letting you know what the item 
   was that you passed rolling on.
-  If a player is looting a corpse and there are one or more items on it
   that player cannot loot, the player will still be able to see those 
   items (although not able to loot them).  This only is for green or 
   better quality items.  The cases this should affect are for the 
   profession recipes that only a player of that profession can loot or
   when master looter is on and there is a threshold or better item on 
   the corpse.
-  The raid panes that have been pulled out into the gamefield should 
   save their option settings between sessions now.
-  When raid bosses send an important message to the center of your 
   screen it will be larger and have an effect that makes it more 
   noticeable.
-  The raid warning command now appears in a larger font in the center 
   screen and grows and shrinks slightly when it appears to make it more
   noticeable.
-  NPC's with level appropriate quests will now always appear on your 
   minimap as yellow exclamation points. NPC's that have quests that you
   have completed will now display as yellow question marks instead of 
   yellow dots. In addition flight masters that you have not yet gotten 
   the flight point for will display on the minimap as a green 
   exclamation point.
-  Npc's will display an icon on mouseover that gives a more specific 
   indicator of their function rather than just a gossip bubble. 
   Questgivers will now show an exclamation mark as their in game 
   mouseover.Innkeepers will show a hearthstone as their in game 
   mouseover and so on.
-  When an Addon attempts to perform an action that is prohibited in 
   combat, you will get a chat message "Interface action failed because 
   of an AddOn". This only occurs once per login.
-  Many interface elements now display players in their class color so 
   you can easily recognize what class a player is. Interface elements 
   affected by this are LFG, Guild, and Who.
-  You can now pull the list of players out of the Chat Channel windows 
   and in a channel into the gamefield by clicking and dragging the 
   channel name onto the gamefield.  This list will show all the players
   in the channel sorted by voice chat status.
-  Voice chat will now display the nameplate for who is talking when you
   are in a custom channel.  Currently it only displays the nameplate 
   when you are in a party/raid.
-  Added a Use Hardware option.  This should only be used by advanced 
   users with specific hardware configurations, as it may significantly 
   alter your sound performance.
-  When multiple people are talking in a voice chat session, it will 
   show the names of up to four people who are talking at the same time.
-  The value of the TargetNearestDistance setting is validated at load 
   time. 
-  If a non-standard refresh rate is selected in the video options, it 
   will now be saved. 
-  The Spell Detail slider setting has been reset to the default 
   setting.  Prior to 2.3 the default for all systems was the maximum 
   setting which was not appropriate for all hardware. 
-  Many On Use items now display the cooldown in the item tooltip. 
-  The tooltip for Block on the character sheet now displays the amount 
   of damage reduced by a successful block. 
-  New macro commands: /targetlastenemy, /targetlastfriend 
-  New macro command to target by entire name: /targetexact 
-  If you get a message "Interface action failed because of an AddOn", 
   this means that an AddOn interfered with the Blizzard UI in some way.
   To diagnose this, enter the following into chat "/console taintLog 1"
   and restart the game and try to reproduce it.  If you reproduce it, 
   you can quit the game and search through the file Logs\taint.log for 
   the word "blocked" and mail the log to the author of the AddOn listed
   there.  Once you have done this you can turn off logging by entering 
   the following into chat "/console taintLog 0” 
-  For more details on UI macro and scripting changes, see the UI and 
   Macro forum.

World Environment
-  Creature AI has been changed to no longer prioritize attacking 
   unfeared targets over feared targets.
-  Gas clouds in Nagrand now produce motes of air.
-  Gas clouds in Zangarmarsh now produce motes of water instead of motes
   of life.
-  The gas clouds in Netherstorm are now always visible. Abilities on 
   goggles that previously allowed the player to detect these invisible 
   gas clouds will now show all gas clouds on their minimap instead. 
   This will stack with other tracking types.
-  Stranglethorn Vale
   Saltscale Tide-Lords no longer have frost nova 
   The fear on Mosh'ogg Lords is reduced
-  Lowered the fireball damage of Defias Pillagers 
-  Increased the cooldowns on the heals of Kurzen Medicine Men
-  The standard Disarm ability that many creatures use now has a 
   duration of 5 seconds instead of 6 seconds.
-  Sonic Burst now silences for 6 seconds instead of 10.

Bug Fixes
-  An issue with spawn rates in Forge Camp: Terror and Forge Camp: 
   Wrath has been fixed. 
-  Fixed the position of one of the Box of Mushrooms objects at 
   Ango'rosh Stronghold for the quest, "Stealing Back the Mushrooms". 
-  Fixed the position of a mineral node in the Blade's Edge Mountains 
   so that it is no longer floating in the air.
-  Fixed a problem with the directions in the quest, "The Ultimate 
   Bloodsport". 
-  Fixed a bug in the pet sheet stamina mouseover tooltip that showed an
   incorrect health increase value.
-  Fixed an issue with aura stacking and debuff cooldowns when 
   reapplying a debuff after being charmed.
-  Reverse cooldowns are correctly refreshed when a buff is reapplied by
   another player.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.2.3 (2007-10-09)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   
Bug Fixes
-  Clients utilizing OpenGL video modes will no longer experience 
   graphical anomalies and missing textures after minimizing/maximizing
   the window.
-  Fixed an issue that caused Fel Eye Stalks during the Legion Ring 
   event to not despawn when the event is completed.
-  Fixed an issue where zoning after mounting and summoning a pet was 
   disconnecting players.
-  Fixed an issue where the Shift key would get stuck in game.
-  Using a /equip macro while affected by certain crowd control spells 
   will no longer cause the items in the macro to be stuck in your 
   inventory.
-  Using very low values for SetScale() will no longer cause Mac users 
   to disconnect from the game.
-  Default sound channels have been changed from 12 to 32. 
-  Microphone resources will no longer be claimed by World of Warcraft 
   when Voice Chat is disabled.
-  Sounds will no longer stutter and pause if large amounts of creatures
   are being hit with AoE attacks from multiple sources.
-  Sounds caused by spells cast on or by the player will now play more 
   consistently.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.2.2 (2007-10-02)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
-  Brewfest has begun and members of the Horde and Alliance can 
   enjoy a multitude of activities, quests, items, and even Ram 
   Racing.  As Brewfest is about beer and food, revelers can 
   sample the best beverages available in the world. 
-  Observed by both the Horde and the Alliance, Hallow's End is the
   celebration of the break between the Forsaken and the Scourge. 
   Adventurers can speak to innkeepers to get silly masks to wear 
   during their adventures, and much more. This is just one way to 
   celebrate Hallow's End.
   New Holiday World Event: The Headless Horseman has been seen 
   terrorizing local villages.
 
World Environment
-  Added a new graveyard to the Southern Barrens.
-  Added a new graveyard to the Western Plaguelands.
-  Added a new graveyard to the Alterac Mountains.
-  Added a new graveyard to the Searing Gorge.
-  Added a new graveyard to the Badlands.
-  Added two new graveyards to Tanaris.
-  Added two new graveyards to Winterspring.
-  Added two new graveyards to Stonetalon.
-  Added two new graveyards to Un'Goro.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.2.0 (2007-09-25)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
-  Voice Chat - The new Voice Chat feature is now available in game. 
   Players will need to go into the Options menu under Sound & Voice to 
   activate it. Volume sliders are available for the microphone, 
   speakers, and game-audio fade (which automatically lowers the game 
   audio when a voice communication is received), as is a “push-to-talk”
   setting. Right-clicking on a player’s name now includes the option to
   mute or unmute that player. Muting another player blocks all voice 
   chat from him or her; the ignore feature now blocks both voice chat 
   and text chat from that player. For the Voice Chat F.A.Q. visit the 
   following links: 
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/thread.html?topicId=942815291&sid=1
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/thread.html?topicId=1272012664&sid=1
-  Chat Channels- New Chat Channel controls and functionality are now 
   available under the Chat tab in the Social window of the interface. 
   The interface will now show the channels players are in or are 
   available to them, depending on the area of the world they are in, 
   along with the addition of new private channel controls.
-  A new feature for reporting players as being AFK in battlegrounds by 
   right clicking has been added.  When enough reports are registered, a
   60 second debuff will begin to count down.  Once the timer is up a 
   new debuff will appear that will prevent the player from gaining any 
   honor while it is on.  This debuff can be negated as soon as the 
   player engages in PvP combat.
-  Haste:  Haste has been rebalanced.  It has returned to the ratios 
   from the launch of Burning Crusade. Melee attacks and spell casts 
   will now benefit at identical rates from haste.  This change results
   in a reduction in the benefit of haste for melee attacks and an 
   increase in the benefit for spellcasters.
-  Troll Berserk: The spell haste on this ability was incorrectly too 
   high and has been corrected.
-  Resilience Rating: The reduction to the percent chance to get a 
   critical strike now also reduces the damage dealt by damage over time
   effects by the same percentage.
-  Daze: Defense skill will no longer reduce the chance players have to 
   receive the Daze effect when attacked from behind by enemies.
-  Area Spells: In some cases guards in neutral areas would not aggro 
   against pvp attacks from area spells. That is now fixed.
-  Corrected the damage modifier calculation for Resilience when the 
   attacker has bonus critical strike damage.
-  Power Regeneration: Any effect which triggers a change in your rate 
   of power regeneration (Mana, Rage, Energy, Focus) will now cause an 
   immediate reward of some power at the old rate of increase, and then 
   begin new “ticks” of power at the new rate approximately 2 seconds 
   later.  This was done to improve functionality of abilities such as 
   Evocation and Innervate so that they did not have wasted “ticks”.
-  Mac Movie Capture: the Mac client can now capture in-game video to 
   QuickTime movie files using a configurable choice of codec, 
   resolution, and frame rate.  Two new entries have been added to the 
   Key Bindings dialog for start/stop recording and for cancellation of 
   a recording.  For more detailed configuration options please see the 
   Mac Options panel in game. Mac OS X 10.4.9 and QuickTime 7.1.6 or 
   better are required.  Not all machines have enough performance to 
   smoothly capture video at high frame rates; end user experimentation 
   will be required to find appropriate settings for each system.
-  Pets are now affected by Paladin greater blessings.
-  Kill Triggered Effects: Effects that trigger from killing your target
   will no longer trigger from killing your pet.
-  Non-combat pets may not be selected as the target for spells or 
   abilities.
-  Non-combat pets now have the tag “Companion” instead of “Minion”.
-  Being attacked by guardians, such as summoned Treants, will no longer
   automatically cause neutral guards to attack you.
-  Meeting Stones can no longer be used to summon players that do not 
   meet the level requirements.
-  Damage and health leech effects always affect flying players even if
   they are immune to the rest of the spell’s affects while in flight.
-  Troll Berserk: The spell haste on this ability was incorrectly too 
   high and has been corrected.

PvP
-  Dueling players may not use a Lightwell that they didn’t create themselves.
-  Battlegrounds
   Eye of the Storm: The points awarded from capturing the flag now 
   increase based on the number of bases the capturing teams owns.
-  Arenas
   Arena calculations have been modified.  In addition, the penalty for 
   smaller arena teams (2v2, 3v3) has been slightly reduced.
   Items that are indicated as quest items in their tooltips and have a 
   “use” or “equip” ability will not work in PvP arenas.
   Players will no longer be able to change armor once an arena battle 
   has begun. Changing armor will still be available during the 
   one-minute prep time prior to the battle.  Main hand, off hand and 
   ranged weapon swapping in combat remains unchanged.   
   
 Druids
-  Cat Form (Night Elf) melee attack range was too short compared to 
   Tauren Cat Form and other attack ranges. It has been increased. 
-  Cyclone: It is no longer possible to Cyclone two targets at
   the same time in the outdoor world.
-  Cyclone: Paladin Auras, Trueshot Aura, and Aspect of the Pack will 
   now be automatically reactivated when Cyclone wears off of a victim 
   who had one of the abilities active.
-  Enrage: If this buff is clicked off early, the armor penalty it 
   causes will now be removed as well. 
-  Enrage and Furor should no longer initiate combat, though it will 
   prevent rage decay for the duration.
-  Entangling Roots: It is no longer possible to have 
   Entangling Roots on two targets at the same time in the outdoor 
   world. 
-  Entangling Roots: It is no longer possible to have more than one rank
   of this spell active on a player.
-  Force of Nature: Using this spell in a neutral town will no longer 
   cause its victim to be attacked by town guards. It also will no 
   longer cause nearby party members to lose stealth. 
-  Hibernate and Entangling Roots duration against PvP targets has been
   reduced to 10 seconds.
-  Hurricane: This spell is now affected by area damage caps. Its bonus 
   damage coefficients have also been increased. 
-  Hurricane: A tooltip error in rank 3 has been corrected.
-  Lacerate: The damage from this ability will now stack properly when 
   two different characters are applying Lacerate to a target. 
-  Mangle: The duration remaining graphic will now display properly for 
   Mangle after it has been refreshed on a target. It will also no 
   longer sometimes apply the Mangle debuff to nearby targets when the 
   Mangle victim is killed by Mangle. 
-  Nature's Grasp: This ability can now trigger while the Druid is 
   sitting. 
-  Tree of Life: The party aura from this shapeshift now extends the 
   full 40-yard radius as stated in the tooltip.
   
Hunters
-  Aspect of the Cheetah: This ability will now cause Hunters to become
   dazed when struck while sitting. 
-  Aspect of the Pack: This ability will now cause party members to 
   become dazed when struck while sitting. 
-  Aspect of the Viper: This ability has received a slight redesign. The
   amount of mana regained will increase as the Hunter’s percentage of 
   mana remaining decreases. At about 60% mana, it is equivalent to the
   previous version of Aspect of the Viper. Below that margin, it is 
   better (up to twice as much mana as the old version); while above 
   that margin, it will be less effective. The mana regained never drops
   below 10% of intellect every 5 sec. or goes above 50% of intellect 
   every 5 sec. 
-  Freezing Trap and Scare Beast duration against PvP targets has been 
   reduced to 10 seconds.
-  Hunter's Mark: The duration remaining graphic will now display 
   properly for Hunter's Mark after it has been refreshed on a target, 
   and will properly consume mana when recasting it to refresh its 
   duration. 
-  Kill Command will not charge the hunter mana if their pet is on 
   passive.
-  Kill Command no longer affects the Hunter’s current target.
-  Misdirection: Items used while Misdirection is active will now 
   consume a charge correctly. 
-  Steady Shot: The tooltip stating the percentage of Attack Power 
   gained by Steady Shot was inaccurate and has been corrected. The 
   damage remains unchanged. 
-  Volley: This spell is now affected by area damage caps. Its bonus 
   damage coefficients have also been increased. It also correctly 
   consumes charges of Misdirection.
-  Hunter pets
   Raptors can now learn Dash.
   
Mages
-  Arcane Missiles: Some procs were not triggered by this spell and now 
   will be (such as Eye of Magtheridon). The tooltip for this spell will
   now update correctly when a Mage is affected by spell haste. 
-  Blizzard: This spell is now affected by area damage caps. Its bonus 
   damage coefficients have also been increased. 
-  Dragon's Breath: The movement-slowing component of this spell is now 
   properly considered a Snare. Immunity and clearing effects will now 
   work properly with it. 
-  Frost Nova: This spell is now affected correctly by area damage caps.
-  Molten Armor: This armor can now be triggered while the Mage is 
   sitting. 
-  Polymorph duration against PvP targets has been reduced to 10 
   seconds.
-  Slow: It is no longer sometimes possible to Slow two targets at the 
   same time in the outdoor world.
-  Spell Steal now receives the proper amount of points from a stacked 
   aura.
   
Paladins
-  Auras: Changing auras will no longer trigger effects that occur when
   you cast a spell.
-  Blessing of Freedom cooldown increased to 25 seconds. 
-  Blessing of Protection: This spell can no longer be cast on others 
   when stunned. It can only be cast on self (to break the stun) under 
   those circumstances.
-  Blessing of Kings, Light, Might, Salvation, Sanctuary and Wisdom 
   increased to 10 minutes.
-  Blessing of Sacrifice now has a 1-minute cooldown. 
-  Consecration will now properly hit large creatures.
-  Greater Blessing of Kings, Light, Might, Salvation, Sanctuary and 
   Wisdom increased to 30 minutes. 
-  Guardian's Favor now increases duration of Blessing of Freedom by 
   2/4 seconds.
-  Eye for an Eye: This ability can now trigger while the Paladin is 
   sitting. 
-  Hammer of Wrath cast time reduced to .5 seconds, global cooldown 
   reduced to .5 seconds. 
-  Illumination: Paladins will now correctly gain mana from this ability
   if they sit down to drink right after a healing crit, and receiving 
   mana from this ability will no longer cause a Paladin who is sitting
   to stand up. 
-  Judgement: The Judgement spells will no longer cause triggered 
   effects to go off twice. 
-  Redoubt: This ability can now trigger while the Paladin is sitting. 
-  Reckoning: This ability can now trigger while the Paladin is sitting.
-  Righteous Defense: In some cases this ability would fail to work 
   properly when the Paladin casting it had just been crowd controlled 
   by a creature.  That is now fixed. 
-  Sanctified Judgement: This talent will now give the correct amount of
   mana when used in conjunction with Seal of Justice.
-  Seal of Righteousness: The tooltip for this ability has been 
   improved. It now displays a different number for one-handed weapons 
   and two-handed weapons, and adjusts to the speed of your current 
   weapon. It displays a single number, rather than a range of numbers 
   for different handedness and speeds. 
-  Seal of Vengeance: The damage from this ability will now stack 
   properly when two different characters are applying Seal of Vengeance
   effects to a target.
-  Seal of Vengeance duration increased to 15 seconds. In addition, when
   Seal of Vengeance strikes a target that already has 5 applications 
   you will cause instant Holy damage. 

Priests
-  Focused Power: This talent now increases the hit chance of all 
   components of Mass Dispel correctly. 
-  Inner Focus: This ability will no longer lose charges when 
   Shadowguard or Touch of Weakness is triggered. 
-  Lightwell: The heals from this ability are now increased by the bonus
   healing effects on the Priest. 
-  Mass Dispel: The portion of this spell that removes immunity effects 
  (Blessing of Protection, Ice Block, etc.), now has a chance to be 
   resisted, and will display correctly to the combat log. It will no 
   longer cause Rogues and Druids in Cat Form to lose stealth. 
-  Mind Control: Creatures immune to this spell will now cause an 
   immediate error message rather than make it seem like the spell 
   succeeded with no effect. 
-  Mind Control duration against PvP targets has been reduced to 10 
   seconds.
-  Pain Suppression: This talent will now reduce the chance for any buff
   on the Priest to be dispelled, rather than reduce the chance of 
   dispelling buffs cast while it is active. 
-  Prayer of Mending: This spell can no longer jump to an Imp with Phase
   Shift active. It will also no longer cause the healed target to stand
   up. 
-  Prayer of Mending: This ability will now be triggered when a player 
   takes damage from effects placed on friendly targets.
-  Shadowguard: This ability will now work properly even when the Priest
   is stunned, fleeing, or incapacitated. 
-  Shackle Undead: It is no longer possible to have Shackle 
   Undead on two targets at the same time in the outdoor world. 
-  Surge of Light: This ability now properly grants its effects to one 
   and only one casting of Smite each time it activates. Interaction 
   issues with Inner Focus have been fixed. 
-  Touch of Weakness: This ability will now trigger properly if struck 
   while mounted.
   
Rogues
-  Blade Flurry: This ability will now do damage to secondary targets 
   when the primary target takes no damage due to a damage shield (such 
   as Power Word: Shield). 
-  Cold Blood: This effect will now be consumed by all crits, including
   those against targets with damage shields.
-  Master of Subtlety: The bonus damage from this talent is now properly
   removed when a Rogue loses stealth from zoning.
-  Sap: It is no longer possible to Sap two targets at the 
   same time in the outdoor world. 
-  Sap duration against PvP targets has been reduced to 10 seconds.
-  Sword Specialization: This talent’s free extra attacks can no longer 
   trigger additional extra attacks.

Shaman
-  Earthbind Totem: This totem will no longer break Rogue stealth. 
-  Earth Shield: It is no longer possible to Earth Shield two 
   targets at the same time in the outdoor world. 
-  Earth Shield is now canceled at logout.
-  Elemental Focus: The free spell triggered by a Lightning Overload 
   will no longer consume this effect.
-  Flametongue Weapon: Damage lowered slightly on rank 6 so that it is
   never better than rank 7.
-  Focused Mind (Restoration) now reduces duration of Silence/Interrupt 
   mechanics by 10/20/30%.
-  Lightning Shield: This ability will now work properly even when the 
   Shaman is stunned, fleeing, or incapacitated. 
-  Nature's Guardian: This ability can now trigger while the Shaman is 
   sitting. 
-  Totems: Totems that grant only friendly beneficial effects will no 
   longer trigger attacks from neutral city guards.

Warlocks
-  Banish, Seduction, Enslave Demon and Fear duration against PvP 
   targets has been reduced to 10 seconds.
-  Death Coil: Immunity to Horror effects no longer grants immunity to 
   the damage portion of this spell.
-  Demonic Knowledge: This effect will no longer deactivate when the 
   Warlock's pet is Banished.
-  Drain Life: The tooltip for this spell will now update correctly when
   a Warlock is affected by spell haste. 
-  Inferno: This spell will now cause the Infernal's attacks to put the 
   Warlock into combat with neutral town guards. 
-  Intercept (Felguard) will now cause damage to targets that are immune
   to stun.
-  Nether Protection: This ability can now trigger while the Warlock is 
   sitting. 
-  Nightfall: This ability can now trigger while the Warlock is sitting. 
-  Rain of Fire: This spell is now affected by area damage caps. Its 
   bonus damage coefficients have also been increased. 
-  Seed of Corruption: Dead targets will no longer be erroneously 
   counted toward the damage cap on this spell.
-  Shadow Embrace: The effect from this talent will no longer last 
   indefinitely if applied while charmed by an NPC.
-  Unstable Affliction: This spell will no longer fail when a Warlock 
   deselects their target midway through the cast.

Warriors
-  A Warrior's Overpower will properly become available when one of his 
   Sword Specialization procs is dodged by another player.
-  Bloodrage should no longer initiate combat, though it will prevent 
   rage decay for the duration.
-  Bloodrage: Warriors no longer remain in combat indefinitely if this 
   ability is active while zoning. 
-  Devastate: The duration remaining graphic will now display properly 
   for Sunder Armor after it has been refreshed on a target by 
   Devastate.
-  Intercept will now cause damage to targets that are immune to stun.
-  Sword Specialization: This talent’s free extra attacks can no longer
   trigger additional extra attacks. 
   
Items
-  Adamantite Bound Chest: These chests found in the outdoor world now 
   contain level-appropriate loot. 
-  Adamantite Bound Chest: These chests will no longer contain 
   Adamantite Bars.
-  Adamantite Figurine: This item is no longer affected by global 
   cooldowns. 
-  Airman's Ribbon of Gallantry: The tooltip for this item now lists the
   effect duration. 
-  Alliance Shaman Level 60 PvP Items: These now have the correct costs.
-  Ankhs now stack to ten.
-  Ashtongue Talisman of Lethality: This trinket now works properly with
   Kidney Shot.
-  Avatar Raiment Set: The set bonus for Renew now increases the 
   duration of Renew by 3 seconds instead of increasing the target's 
   resistance. 
-  Black Qiraji Battletank: It is no longer possible to cast a spell 
   while boarding this mount. 
-  Blazefury Medallion: This item will no longer trigger against targets
   affected by Sap. 
-  Blue Ogre Brew: This item now gives an error message when you attempt
   to use it outside of the Blade's Edge Plateaus. 
-  Cerebral Cortex Compound: This item's tooltip now indicates it counts
   as an elixir. 
-  Characters with a full inventory who turn in a Deathwing Brood Cloak 
   to Sky Commander Keller in exchange for an Apexis Crystal will now 
   receive the crystal in the mail.
-  Corrected the sound made by many items when moved in players' 
   inventories.
-  Corruptor Raiment Set: The pet healing bonus from this set is now 
   triggered from damage dealt instead of damage received, at a lower 
   percentage. Damage over time spells will trigger it correctly. 
-  Corruptor Raiment: The heal from this set bonus can no longer be a 
   critical heal.
-  Crown of the Sun: This item now makes the correct sound when moved 
   in inventory. 
-  Crystalweave Bracers: This item now makes the correct sound when 
   moved in inventory. 
-  Cyclone Regalia: The tooltip on the Energize bonus has been altered 
   to state this bonus only reduces the base mana cost of the spell.
-  Darkmoon Card: Madness: This item will no longer trigger from using 
   Demonic Sacrifice on a pet. 
-  Darkmoon Card: Crusade: This item can no longer trigger from Mind 
   Soothe, Soothe Animal, or Mind Vision. 
-  Deathmantle Armor Pieces: These items now make the correct sound when
   moved in inventory. 
-  Defiler's Plate Spaulders: Honor cost of this item corrected to its 
   intended value. 
-  Demonic Bulwark: This item incorrectly had a base amount of bonus 
   healing in addition to its random stats. That base bonus healing has 
   been removed.
-  Design: Mystic Dawnstone: This recipe for a +8 resilience-rating gem 
   will now always have a copy on the vendor initially when Halaa is 
   captured by a faction and when the vendor restocks. 
-  Enriched Terocone Juice: Using this item will no longer trigger a 
   cooldown for using all other food and drink. Its purchase price has
   also been corrected. 
-  Essence Infused Mushroom: This item can now be disenchanted.
-  Eye of Arachnida: This item's 3rd charge will now work correctly. 
   However, an item with 0 charges will remain, and this item is now 
   unable to be vendored or disenchanted.
-  Faceplate of the Impenetrable: This item now makes the correct sound
   when moved in inventory.
-  Fel Reaver’s Piston: This item will no longer be triggered by the 
   healing generated by Vampiric Embrace.   
-  Figurine of the Colossus: This item is no longer affected by global 
   cooldowns. 
-  Figurine of the Colossus: This item is now useable when the user has 
   no mana. 
-  Flasks: Various tooltips have been adjusted for consistency.  
-  Formula: Enchant Chest - Major Resilience: Corrected a tooltip error. 
-  Formula: Enchant Cloak - Dodge: This enchanting recipe is now 
   available from the Lower City Quartermaster. The reagents required 
   have been adjusted to match the level 70 content. 
-  Formula: Enchant Cloak - Greater Fire Resistance: The reagents 
   required for this recipe have been adjusted to better match the level
   70 content. 
-  Formula: Enchant Cloak - Greater Nature Resistance: The reagents 
   required for this recipe have been adjusted to better match the level
   70 content. 
-  Formula: Enchant Cloak - Stealth: This enchanting recipe is now 
   available from the Cenarion Expedition Quartermaster. The reagents 
   required have been adjusted to match the level 70 content. 
-  Formula: Enchant Cloak - Subtlety: This enchanting recipe is now 
   available from the Thrallmar Quartermaster and Honor Hold 
   Quartermaster. The reagents required have been adjusted to match the
   level 70 content. 
-  Formula: Enchant Gloves - Superior Agility: This enchanting recipe is
   now available from the Keepers of Time Quartermaster. The reagents 
   required have been adjusted to match the level 70 content. 
-  Formula: Enchant Gloves - Threat: This enchanting recipe is now 
   available from the Sha'tar Quartermaster. The reagents required have 
   been adjusted to match the level 70 content. 
-  Formula: Enchant Weapon - Greater Agility: This enchanting recipe is 
   now available from the Violet Eye vendor. 
-  Gizzard Gum: This item's tooltip now indicates it counts as an elixir. 
-  Greater Rune of Warding: Due to persistent bugs with its design, this
   item has been redesigned for patch 2.2. It now enchants a piece of 
   chest armor so it has a chance per hit of giving you physical damage 
   absorption. 
-  Grips of Silent Justice: This item now makes the correct sound when 
   moved in inventory. 
-  Ground Scorpok Assay: This item's tooltip now indicates it counts as 
   an elixir. 
-  Heavy Fel Iron Chest: These chests found in the outdoor world now 
   contain level-appropriate loot. 
-  Horde Paladin Level 60 PvP Items: These now have the correct costs.
-  Increased the duration of the Mystical Skyfire Diamond’s cast speed 
   buff to 10 seconds.
-  Incarnate Raiment Set: The Flexibility buff from this set is no 
   longer removed by taking damage.
-  Insignia of the Alliance: This item now indicates it removes effects 
   instead of dispelling them. 
-  Insignia of the Horde: This item now indicates it removes effects 
   instead of dispelling them. 
-  Kronk's Grab Bag: This bag will now always contain some item.
-  Leggings of Beast Mastery: The stamina and armor granted by this item
   for your pet have been increased. 
-  Leggings of Divine Retribution: This item now makes the correct sound
   when moved in inventory. 
-  Lesser Rune of Warding: Due to persistent bugs with its design, this 
   item has been redesigned for patch 2.2. It now enchants a piece of 
   chest armor so it has a chance per hit of giving you physical damage 
   absorption. 
-  Lesser Ward of Shielding: This item was not providing any benefit to
   the user or placing a buff icon on them. It is now functioning 
   properly.
-  Libram of Avengement: The tooltip for this item now specifies it only
   works with the damaging Judgements (Command, Righteousness, 
   Vengeance, Blood).  
-  Lionheart Champion: This item now has a sound effect on its proc. 
-  Lionheart Executioner: This item now has a sound effect on its proc. 
-  Lung Juice Cocktail: This item's tooltip now indicates it counts as 
   an elixir. 
-  Mark of Defiance: This item is now triggered from landing harmful 
   spells on a target, instead of just direct-damage spells. 
-  Marshal's Silk Cuffs: Critical strike rating on this item now the 
   same as General's Silk Cuffs.
-  Medallion of the Alliance: This item now indicates it removes effects
   instead of dispelling them. 
-  Medallion of the Horde: This item now indicates it removes effects 
   instead of dispelling them.
-  Merciless Gladiator’s Barrier: This spell damage shield has been 
   added to the arena vendor.
-  Merciless Gladiator’s Legguards: This item now appears as a kilt.
-  Merciless Gladiator's Plate Helm: The melee hit rating on this item 
   has been changed to hit rating (it now applies to melee and ranged).
-  Merciless Gladiator's Plate Helm will now properly hide facial hair.
-  Merciless Gladiator’s Redoubt: This healing shield has been added to 
   the arena vendor.
-  Merciless Gladiator’s Ringmail Helm: This item will disable
   hair from being displayed. 
-  Merciless Gladiator’s Leather Spaulders: Critical strike rating was 
   too low and has been fixed.
-  Merciless Gladiator's Touch of Defeat: This item now has a fire shoot
   animation to match its damage type.
-  Mr. Pinchy: Items received from Mr. Pinchy when your inventory is 
   full will now be mailed to you. 
-  Mystical Skyfire Diamond: Channeled spells will now properly consume
   the Focus effect. 
-  Netherblade armor now has the correct sounds associated with it.
-  Oil of Immolation: Tooltip error corrected. 
-  Pendant of the Violet Eye: This item will now trigger properly from 
   spells that cost a percentage of base mana. 
-  Power Infused Mushroom: This item can now be disenchanted. 
-  Red Ogre Brew: This item now gives an error message when you attempt
   to use it outside of the Blade's Edge Plateaus. 
-  Rift Stalker Armor: The pet healing set bonus now heals for a 
   percentage of damage dealt by the Hunter. 
-  R.O.I.D.S.: This item's tooltip now indicates it counts as an elixir.
-  Sagefish Delight: The buff from this item has been modified to work 
   the same as all other mana per 5 buffs and displays correctly 
   on the character sheet. 
-  Schematic: Fused Wiring: Vendors who sell this recipe will now 
   properly restock it after a period of time. 
-  Sheen of Zanza: This item's tooltip now indicates it counts as an 
   elixir. 
-  Shiny Red Apple: Druids in animal forms can no longer eat this food 
   item.
-  Shuriken of Negation: Item level and stats increased to match other 
   items in from Gruul.
-  Six Demon Bag: The damage spells cast by this item no longer benefit 
   from a player’s bonus spell damage effects. 
-  Skyguard Rations: Tooltip error corrected. 
-  Skyguard Silver Cross: The tooltip for this item now lists the effect
   duration. 
-  Skyshatter Raiment: The bonuses in this set have had the spells they
   affect swapped. 
-  Skyshatter Regalia: The Totemic Mastery set bonus will no longer 
   force the Shaman to stand up and stop eating and drinking.
-  Slayer's Armor: The set bonus for Sinister Strike, Backstab, and 
   Mutilate now also works for Hemorrhage.
-  Smoked Sagefish: The buff from this item has been modified to work 
   the same as all other mana per 5 buffs and displays correctly 
   on the character sheet.
-  Spirit of Zanza: This item's tooltip now indicates it counts as an 
   elixir. 
-  Spyglass of the Hidden Fleet: This item is now useable by 
   shapeshifted Druids. 
-  Staff of Natural Fury: Tooltip clarified to indicate it reduces the 
   base mana cost of shapeshifts, not the final cost. 
-  Stormstout: Corrected the tooltip due to capitalization inconsistency. 
-  Swiftness of Zanza: This item's tooltip now indicates it counts as 
   an elixir. 
-  Talon of Al'ar: The bonus damage to all Shot abilities now provides 
   the full bonus to Scatter Shot and Silencing Shot.
-  Talasite Owl: The effect from this item will now last its intended 
   full duration.
-  The blood elf paladin quest reward Scourgebane now works against 
   demons as well as undead.
-  Trappings of the Unseen Path Set: The buff on your pet from this set 
   bonus will no longer appear to be constantly running out and 
   refreshing. 
-  Trogg Ale: Corrected the tooltip due to capitalization inconsistency. 
-  Unstable Talasite: The tooltip on this gem now indicates it counts as
   blue and yellow, and it behaves accordingly. 
-  Veteran’s Scaled Belt: Stats have been adjusted to correct budget. 
-  Veteran’s Scaled Greaves: Stats have been adjusted to correct budget.
-  Voidheart Set: The tooltips for the two-piece bonuses have been 
   adjusted slightly so that there is no longer a blank set bonus. The 
   functionality of the set bonus was unchanged. 
-  Warbringer Armor Set: The bonus from Revenge will now apply correctly
   to Shield Slam. 
-  Wild Draenish Vest: This item now makes the correct sound when moved 
   in inventory. 
-  Windrider Mounts: These items now make the correct sound when moved 
   in inventory. 
-  Winterfall Firewater: This item's tooltip now indicates it counts as 
   an elixir. 
-  Wolfshead Helm: This helm will no longer give twice the rage it was 
   intended to give.
-  World Breaker: The bonus from this item being triggered will no 
   longer fade before it can provide its benefit.

Professions
-  Various crafting recipes have been added to the Violet Eye faction 
   vendor.
-  Triggered Effects: Tradeskill recipes will no longer trigger items 
   that are designed to be triggered by only combat spells.
-  Alchemy
   Flask of Shadow Fortification will transform into the Flask of Pure 
   Death.  This new flask increases Frost, Fire, and Shadow spell damage.
   Flask of Arcane Fortification will transform into the Flask of 
   Blinding Light.  This new flask increases Holy, Nature, and Arcane 
   spell damage.
   A new flask that increases all resists and stats has been added to 
   the Violet Eye reputation vendor.
-  Blacksmithing
   Changed the set bonuses afforded by Fel Iron Plate to increase hit 
   chance and Strength.
   Added a new recipe for Ragesteel Shoulders that drops from an unknown
   creature in Shadowmoon Valley.
   Reduced the number of pieces required to get the benefits of the 
   Ragesteel set bonus.
-  Enchanting
   Nexus Transformation: This recipe to transform a Nexus Crystal into 
   a Small Prismatic Shard has been added to some Enchanting trainers. 
   Small Prismatic Shards: This recipe to transform a Large Prismatic 
   Shard into 3 Small Prismatic Shards has been added to some Enchanting
   trainers. 
   Large Prismatic Shard: It is no longer possible to gain skill points 
   in Enchanting from this recipe.
-  Engineering
   Reduced the cooldown on the engineer-made Parachute Cloak.
-  Jewelcrafting
   Added a recipe for Steady Talasite to the Halaa vendors. This new 
   recipe requires Halaa Research Tokens to purchase and creates a 
   superior green gem that grants Resilience and Stamina.

Quests
-  "Banish the Demons" now rewards either a Darkrune or a Fragmented 
   Darkrune. Five fragmented Darkrunes can be combined to create a 
   Darkrune.
-  During the quest, "The Smallest Creatures", the marmot's stealth 
   ability is working once again. 
-  Firewing Warlocks are less likely to want to engage in melee combat. 
-  Fixed an issue wherein a character with a Darkrune would not be able 
   to turn it in to Gahk in return for a Crystalforged Darkrune unless 
   they first completed the daily quest "Banish More Demons" that day. 
-  In the "Bad Medicine" quest in Stranglethorn, Jungle Remedies can now 
   be found on Jungle Fighters. 
-  In Hillsbrad, additional Syndicate Papers were added to the Corahn's 
   Dagger subzone Syndicate camp. Quest text was changed to reflect this.
-  In the "Bomb Them Again" quest, the cooldown of the Skyguard bombs 
   was decreased to 5 seconds (was 10).
-  In the "Relic's Emanation" quest, the money reward was decreased while 
   the Ogri'la faction reward was increased.
-  Mawg Grimshot's flavor events have been fixed. 
-  Resolved issues with Obsidia, Rivendark, Insidion, and Furywing 
   sometimes not responding to their eggs being used. 
-  The duration of the Apexis Relic and Apexis Monument beams was 
   slightly reduced, to more easily separate 2 back-to-back beams. 
-  The following Quest Objects will no longer briefly despawn when 
   looted: Mythology of the Titans, Compendium of the Fallen, Maiden's 
   Folly Charts, Maiden's Folly Log, Spirit of Silverpine Charts, Spirit
   of Silverpine Log.
-  Various issues breaking the "Showdown" quest fight have been resolved. 
   
Dungeons and Raids
-  Tempest Keep and Coilfang raid bosses will now all drop at least 3 
   items each.
-  Auchindoun- Heroic Sethekk Halls
   Polymorph should no longer affect the main tank.
-  Auchindoun- Shadow Labyrinth
   The recast time for the Shadow Word: Pain cast by Cabal Shadow 
   Priests has been increased.
-  Black Temple
   Saber Lash tanks will no longer be knocked back by Sinister Beam or 
   hit by Fatal Attraction, even if they dodge or parry the attack.
   Mother Shahraz will now pick a new beam to cast after every 3rd beam 
   instead of after every 5th.  This means she is much less likely to 
   cast the same beam many times in a row.
   Fatal Attraction now deals 750 damage on the first tick, 1500 on the 
   second, 2250 on the third, and 3000 on all subsequent ticks.
   Prismatic Shield is now more fun.  Specifically, Mother Shahraz now 
   takes bonus damage from one school when she is resistant to its 
   opposite.  Her resistances now change randomly every 15 seconds and 
   are capped at 25%.
-  Caverns of Time- Battle of Mount Hyjal
   Faction and loot rewards has been added to non-boss mobs in the 
   Battle of Mount Hyjal raid event. The faction awarded by bosses has 
   been decreased to balance this.
   The health of Jaina and Thrall have been increased again from their 
   temporarily lowered values. They should be able to absorb quite a bit
   more incidental damage during the event.
   Archimonde has received several adjustments and fixes to prevent some
   of the harder to counter combinations of his abilities. Archimonde's 
   Soul Charge silence has been lowered in duration to 4 seconds, and 
   the death of the Priest with Spirit of Redemption will no longer 
   create two Soul Charges. The casting time of Archimonde's fear has 
   been increased to 1.5 seconds, and he should now use his Fear ability
   on a much more consistent interval. Archimonde will also no longer 
   cast Grip of the Legion on very far away targets.
   Archimonde will no longer cast Grip of the Legion on targets that 
   have just been hit with Air Burst.
-  Caverns of Time- Black Morass
   Increased recast time on Shadow Bolt Volley on Rift Keeper, also 
   reduced damage on Heroic.
   Reduced hit points of Infinite Executioners on Heroic.
   Decreases the maximum possible stacks of Temporus' Mortal Wound from
   10 to 7.
   Increased recast time for Temporus' Hasten spell on Heroic.
-  Caverns of Time- Escape from  Durnholde Keep
   When the limit on Thrall respawns after event failure has been 
   reached, the Epoch Hunter will now properly despawn.
   Human Illusion: This effect in Old Hillsbrad will no longer be 
   applied to Dwarf and Human Priests when they exit Shadowform.
   The composition of the pulls around the barracks in Durnholde Keep is
   now more consistent. Players should no longer face more than two 
   Riflemen, or more than one Warden.
   The group of guards underneath the bridge has been removed in Heroic
   difficulty.
   The Thrall escort event now allows 20 tries at completing the event 
   instead of 3.
-   Coilfang Reservoir: Serpentshrine Cavern
    Coilfang Priestesses no longer perform Spirit of Redemption.
    Underbog Colossus' Acid Spray is now somewhat less dangerous.
    Underbog Colossus' Spore Quake now has a shorter duration.
    Greyheart Tidecallers' Virulent poison is now less deadly.
    Serpentshrine Sporebats now charge less frequently.
    Greyheart Nether-Mages now blink less frequently.
    Serpentshrine Lurkers have had their damage output reduced.
-  Hellfire Citadel: Shattered Halls
   The melee damage dealt by Shattered Hand Reavers, Shattered Hand 
   Legionnaires, Shattered Hand Heathens, and Rabid Warhounds in Heroic 
   Mode has been reduced.
-  Karazhan
   Nightbane's Distracting Ash can now be removed with Cloak of Shadows.
   Tinhead in Karazhan is now immune to bleeds.
   Romulo and Julianne now clear all negative effects on themselves 
   before they come back from "death".
-  Scholomance
   Ras Frostwhisper's Frost Armor Chilled effect is now properly 
   classified as a snare mechanic.
-  Tempest Keep: Arcatraz
   The Devastate cast by Unbound Devastators now does Physical damage.
   The recast time for the Deafening Roar spell cast by Unbound 
   Devastators has been increased on Heroic mode.
   Wrath-Scryer Soccothrates' Knock Away can no longer be dodged or 
   parried. This will help prevent the catastrophic placement of 
   multiple flames on top of each other.
   Harbinger Skyriss casts his Fear spell less often.
-  Tempest Keep: Botanica
   The time between casting of Thorgrin the Tender's Hellfire has been 
   increased.
   The time between casting of Thorgrin the Tender’s Sacrifice has been
   increased in Heroic Mode.
   Thorgrin the Tender’s Enrage ability now increases his melee damage 
   by 75% instead of 110%.
-  Tempest Keep: Mechanar
   Raging Flames in the Nethermancer Sepethrea encounter have had their 
   movement speed reduced slightly in heroic mode.
   The Arcane Servants summoned by Sunseeker Netherbinders are now 
   properly classified as Arcane Elementals, deal less melee damage and 
   have fewer hit points.
-  Tempest Keep: The Eye
   The spells cast by High Astromancer Solarian have been extensively 
   reworked. Wrath of the Astromancer is a now completely different in 
   function. Mark of the Astromancer has been renamed to Light of the 
   Astromancer and no longer reduces Arcane resistance. A player's 
   Arcane Resistance now also provides normal damage mitigation to 
   Solarian's spells.
   Phoenix-Hawk Hatchlings now use Wing Buffet less frequently.
   Crimson Hand Centurions now deal less damage with Arcane Flurry.
   Crimson Hand Battle Mages have had their Frost Attack damage reduced.
   
User Interface
-  Cast sequence macros no longer get stuck at feral druid abilities.
-  Toggling the world map can be bound to an extended mouse button.
-  Improved the handling of items with charges on the action bar.
-  Fixed an issue where moveable frames would end up off screen after 
   changing either to or from a widescreen resolution. 
-  Fixed an issue where moveable frames would end up off screen after 
   changing the UI scale.
-  Fixed issue where font strings would get clipped when the UI was 
   scaled.
-  The pitchLimit console command has been re-enabled.
-  Conditional macros with multiple targets will use the appropriate 
   context sensitive target for visual range feedback.
-  Conditional macro processing has been greatly optimized.
-  Macros with specific cast targets will no longer cast on your current
   target if the specified target doesn’t exist.
-  Warlocks can no longer get both Fel Stamina and Sacrifice Shield 
   using a macro.
-  For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the UI & 
   Macros Forum-
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&forumId=11114

World Environment
-  The following old-world factions have had their acquisition rate 
   significantly increased: Cenarion Circle, Argent Dawn, Timbermaw Hold.
-  If you get a positive reputation from combat you also get the 
   corresponding opposite reputation reduction.
-  Adjusted Yowler's level to 20 (from 25). 
-  Adjusted the level of Redridge Bashers and Alphas.
-  Arcane Missiles: When cast by creatures, this spell will now properly
   cause activation of pets set to defensive mode.
-  Azuregos: The tooltip on this creature's Frost Breath now correctly 
   indicates Frozen rather than impairing movement. 
-  Chieftain Mummaki: This creature can now be pickpocketed.
-  Crypt Fiends around Azeroth and at Hyjal Summit are now more totem 
   friendly.
-  Doctor Maleficus: This creature can now be pickpocketed. 
-  Dragonmaw Peon: The creature now has the correct pickpocket loot. 
-  Fel Corrupters in Blade’s Edge Mountain are now less potent.
-  Fixed an improper dialog option on Carolyn Ward, a Rogue Trainer in 
   Undercity, when the player's Lockpicking was 300-324. 
-  Highlord Mastrogonde: This creature now always drops at least a good
   quality item.
-  Kataru: The totem cast by this creature will now be treated as a 
   totem, rather than as a creature.
-  Markaru: This creature is now skinnable.
-  Minor Fairbreeze Village fixes: The general goods vendor was moved 
   from home to the lower inn, the pet vendor was moved from the upper 
   inn to home, the upper inn is now flagged as an inn.
-  Mo’arg Doomsmith: This creature now drops Marks of Sargeras rather 
   than Marks of Kil’jaeden.
-  Monstrous Kaliri: This creature now has loot and will give reputation. 
-  Quest target Fel Spirits are now considered undead.
-  Vindicator Aeus in the Aldor bank is no longer attackable by players 
   who are members of the Scryer faction. 
-  Sethekk Ravenguard: The Howling Screech from this creature is now 
   properly considered a Snare, and is clearable by Escape Artist and 
   other abilities that remove Snares. 
-  Skettis Windwalker: The Cyclone effect from this creature can now be
   cleared by PvP trinkets and Bestial Wrath/The Beast Within.
-  Skulloc Soulgrinder in Blade's Edge now correctly summons Sundered 
   Ghosts to aid him in battle.
-  Void Reaver: The Arcane Orb ability used by this creature will now 
   correctly Daze players affected by Aspect of the Pack or Aspect of 
   the Cheetah. 
-  Void Terror: This creature is now skinnable.
-  Wyrmcult Blackwhelp: This creature now can be skinned but can no 
   longer be pickpocketed.
-  Wyrmcult Blackwhelp: This creature now can be skinned but can no 
   longer be pickpocketed.
-  Blackrock Spire: The gems for the Seal of Ascension are now a 100% 
   drop from Overlord Wyrmthalak, War Master Voone and Highlord Omokk.
-  Wailing Caverns:  The Druids of the Talon will no longer permanently 
   flee.
-  Blackfathom Deeps: Several creatures will no longer permanently flee.
-  Temple of Atal'Hakkar: Several creatures will no longer permanently 
   flee.

Mac
-  Additional graphic optimization utilizing AltiVec for PowerPC-Mac 
   and SSE for Intel-Mac.  This provides some performance benefit on 
   systems where vertex animation shaders are either unavailable or 
   disabled (recommended on systems with Intel integrated video).
-  Mac Options dialog has been added to the primary options panel. 
   This dialog offers configuration options for any features that are 
   presently unique to the Mac client, such as iTunes Remote and Movie 
   Capture.
-  New iTunes Remote configuration options have been added to the Mac 
   Options panel.
   
Bug Fixes
-  Fixed problem where players could be disconnected by clicking on an 
   item link in cross-server battlegrounds.
-  Pets will no longer chase players that Vanish.
-  Pets no longer follow enemies after being revived.
-  Stacked items will no longer disappear from a player’s inventory when
    zoning multiple times.
-  The WoW client on Windows no longer defaults to 800x600 video 
   resolution if the WoW resolution is higher than the desktop 
   resolution when going from fullscreen mode to windowed mode.
-  The Temple Concubine's polymorph no longer has the pig icon appearing
   when it sheeps a player but now shows the proper sheep icon.
-  Players using ranged attacks while under the shapeshift effects of 
   Torment of the Worgen, will now play attack animations
-  The Toxic Spore Bats in the Lady Vashj encounter will now properly 
   despawn if the raid party wipes.
-  Toxic Spores in the Lady Vashj encounter can no longer kill phase 
   shifted imps.
-  Anzu can no longer be kited far from his spawn point and will 
   properly leash.
-  The Doomguard Punisher will no longer hit players not involved in the
   Legion Ring Event.
-  Dressing room models for females are now showing the correct head 
   when transformed into a Fel Orc via the Dragonmaw Illusion.
-  The trash pulls in the Grand Promenade will now shut off after the 
   Blood Elf Council are killed.
-  Players can now accept daily quests even after their daily quest 
   limit has been reached.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.1.3 (2007-07-10)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
-  Read in-game mail will now be kept for thirty days instead of three.
-  The Warlock spell Incinerate has had the performance of its graphical
   spell effect improved.
-  The "Show Launcher" option has changed so that it now defaults to 
   "On".  Players will now see the launcher when running WoW by default.
   
User Interface
-  Improved the performance of conditional macros, slightly increasing 
   the framerate.
-  Fixed a crash triggered by many unit frame AddOns.
   
Bug Fixes
-  Fixed an issue with the movement of Archimonde's Doomfire.
-  Fixed the wand missile art on most Shadow based wands to show the 
   correct graphical effect.
-  Infinity Blades will now despawn properly when the encounter with 
   Kael'thas resets after a wipe.
-  Gan'arg Underlings and Felhound Defenders are now properly classified
   as demons.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.1.2 (2007-06-19)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
-  Arena and Honor Rewards: As part of the inauguration of Season 2, 
   the costs of all Arena items and Honor items has been reduced.
-  Improved Mend Pet, Abolish Disease, and Abolish Poison no longer 
   play sounds when there is nothing to dispel.
-  Players can no longer fail with skinning at maximum skill.
-  Spellcloth: Creating spellcloth will once again only summon one 
   Angered Nether-wraith.
-  Some new cooking recipes are available from Kylene in Shattrath 
   City.
-  A recipe for a superior resilience gem has been added and is rumored
   to be held by the residents of Halaa.
-  Procs: Most procs are set to trigger only from spells that cost 
   mana, but inadvertently disallowed spells that cost a percentage 
   of base mana. That bug has been fixed and so such spells will now 
   trigger many procs they did not previously trigger.
-  Players will no longer slow down to walking speed when closely 
   following another player.
   
Druids
-  Druids in Swift Flight form can no longer loot herb nodes.
-  Force of Nature: This spell will no longer causes players it is cast
   on to enter combat with nearby creatures. All of the treants 
   summoned will now attack a neutral creature they are summoned on.
-  Tree of Life: The bonus-healing aura from this talent will 
   reactivate when a Banish effect wears off a Druid in Tree Form.

Hunters
-  Fixed bug with Misdirection where sometimes only two attacks were 
   redirected instead of three.
-  Entrapment: This talent will no longer causes Hunter to stand up or 
   stop eating and drinking when it procs.
-  Improved Mend Pet: This ability will no longer cause Hunters to stand
   or to interrupt eating and drinking.
-  Poison Spit: These abilities will now appear in the correct order in 
   the pet training menu.
-  Scatter Shot: This ability will now trigger Thrill of the Hunt.
-  Thunderstomp: These abilities will now appear in the correct order in
   the pet training menu.
   
Mages
-  Molten Armor: This buff can now proc when the Mage is sitting.

   
Paladins
-  Corrected the amount of damage done by Seal of Vengeance on a target
   affected by Judgement of Crusader.
-  Improved Concentration Aura: This ability now correctly reduces the 
   duration of silence and interrupt effects by 30%. In addition, the 
   reduction in duration of silence and interrupt effects from this 
   ability will no longer stack with other such reductions.
-  Judgement of Blood: Effects that increase your damage by a 
   percentage will no longer cause Paladins to take excessive damage 
   from casting this spell.
-  Seal of Blood: Effects that increase your damage by a percentage 
   will no longer cause Paladins to take excessive damage from this 
   spell's procs.
   
Priests
-  Feedback: This buff can now proc when the Priest is sitting.
-  Shadowfiend: This creature will now reset to full health when it is
   summoned. It will also automatically attack your current enemy target
   when it is summoned.
-  Surge of Light: The buff from Surge of Light will no longer prevent 
   Inner Focus's charge from being consumed. In addition, it is no 
   longer possible to get two free Smites when this ability procs.
-  Touch of Weakness: This spell can now trigger Surge of Light when it 
   does critical strikes.

Rogues
-  Sword Specialization: The change to Sword Specialization making its 
   extra attacks appear in yellow has been reverted. Extra attacks will
   appear in white and act like any auto-attack. They will no longer 
   reset the swing time of your weapon.

Shaman
-  Focused Mind: This ability has been changed to reduce the duration of
   silence and interrupt effects, rather than increase resistance to 
   them.
-  Frostbrand Weapon Rank 5: The damage on this spell was reduced 
   slightly such that it will never do more damage than Frostbrand Rank
   6.
-  Lightning Shield: Procs from this buff will no longer cause neutral 
   town guards to attack the Shaman. In addition, Nightmare Vine will no
   longer cause charges of this buff to be consumed.
   
Warriors
-  Overpower dims on the action bar when the player is affected by 
   disarm spells.
-  Sword Specialization: The change to Sword Specialization making its
   extra attacks appear in yellow has been reverted. Extra attacks will
   appear in white and act like any auto-attack. They will no longer 
   reset the swing time of your weapon. Rage awarded will be calculated
   by damage dealt as with any normal auto-attack.
   
Items

-  PvP Trinkets: Insignia of the Alliance, Insignia of the Horde, 
   Medallion of the Alliance, and Medallion of the Horde have all been 
   redesigned.  The trinkets for all classes now have the same effect: 
   Dispels all movement impairing effects and all effects that cause 
   loss of control of your character.
-  Many raid items have had their art improved.
-  Clefthoof Mace: This item's name is now spelled correctly.
-  Crystalweave Bracers: This item and its depleted counterpart now have
   spell critical strike rating as intended.
-  Ebon Mask: This item now has sound when moved in a player's inventory.
-  Eye of Magtheridon: This trinket will now trigger when a Judgement of
   Vengeance is resisted.
-  Relentless Earthstorm Diamond: The bonus damage to critical strikes 
   from this metagem now applies to all types of damage, not just physical.
-  Skyguard Rations: The stamina and spirit buff from this food has been
   decreased, as well as its duration.
-  Talisman of the Breaker: The reduction in duration of silence and 
   interrupt effects from this item will no longer stack with other such
   reductions.
-  Vestments of the Devout Set: The damage absorb set bonus on this set 
   will now absorb only 350 damage, matching its intended design and 
   tooltip.
-  Voidheart Raiment Set: The two-piece set bonus will now trigger from
   Death Coil.
-  Voidstar Talisman: This item will now give the correct amount of 
   resistance to Warloock pets.

Quests
-  Vim'gol the Vile now has a 30 second respawn cooldown.
-  A problem with interrupting Vim'gol the Vile's Unholy Growth spell
   has been fixed.
-  Casting bar text was added when gathering a Corrupted Flower during 
   the quest, "Botanical Legwork".
-  A distance-related issue was resolved when attempting to use the Fel
   Crystalforges at Forge Camp: Terror and Forge Camp: Wrath in the 
   Blade's Edge Mountains to create 5 Unstable Elixirs of the Beast.
-  A problem that could result in Obsidia, Rivendark, Insidion, and 
   Furywing not responding to their respective dragon eggs being used 
   has been resolved.
-  Sky Sergeant Vanderlip at the Skyguard Outpost in the Blade's Edge 
   Mountains will no longer display her Exalted faction gossip to those
   who have not attained that faction rank.
-  All classes will now properly get credit for siphoning the crystal in
   the quest "Bloodgem Crystals".
-  Players will no longer fail to summon Insidion and Obsidia if the  
   dragons are in combat when a player summons them.
   
Dungeons and Raids
-  Auchindoun: Sethekk Halls
   Time-Lost Controllers no longer remove buffs from players who are 
   charmed.
   Heroic Mode: Anzu, the Raven God may no longer be pulled far away
   from the location where he is summoned.
   Heroic Mode: Anzu's Spell Bomb is now a curse and he will no longer
   charge.
   Heroic Mode: The quantity and health of Minions of Anzu that spawn 
   have been reduced.
   Heroic Mode: The frequency and duration of many of his abilities 
   have been retuned to make the fight more forgiving.
-  Auchindoun: Shadow Labyrinth
   The Cabal Summoner, Cabal Executioner, and Cabal Spellbinder mobs 
   that interact with Murmur in the Screaming Hall in Auchindoun Shadow
   Labyrinth will no longer sometimes freeze their animations upon 
   death.
-  Black Temple
   It is no longer possible to engage the Shade of Akama without 
   completing phase 1 of the encounter.
   Ashtongue Spiritbinders may now cast heals on Ashtongue Sorcerors, 
   Channelers, and the Shade of Akama.
   The Illidan Stormrage fight encounter has received additional tuning 
   and improvements.
-  Caverns of Time: Mount Hyjal
   The number of preliminary waves before each boss in the Caverns of 
   Time: Battle for Mount Hyjal event has been reduced from 12 to 8, and 
   some of the larger waves have fewer creatures than before.
-  Karazhan
   The door leading to the Celestial Watch in Karazhan now starts open,
   and Netherspite does not path so close to the door.
   The damage dealt by Netherspite's Nether Breath has been reduced.
   Fixed a bug that caused the Karazhan chess event’s movement spell 
   cooldowns to not display correctly.
-  Tempest Keep
   When Kael'thas Sunstrider is engaged in combat, the doors leading 
   into his room will now properly close.
-  Tempest Keep: Mechanar
   Nethermancer Sepethrea's Raging Flames should now periodically change
   their targets in Heroic mode.
   
Interface
-  Fixed an issue with some AddOns where dropdown menus go away after 
   showing the world map.
-  Fixed some Lua errors on /castsequence macros with conditionals.

World Environment
-  Chief Overseer Mudlump, Dragonmaw Pitfighter, Forgus, Goblin Merc,
   Gug, Horus, Lost Torranche, Officer Jaxon, Overlord Mor'ghor, 
   Rumbpus, Telaari Jailor and Uriku: These creatures are no longer 
   lootable.
-  Darbel Montrose: This creature now always drops at least a good 
   quality item.
-  Lost Torranche: This creature is now skinnable.
-  Rallying Cry of the Dragonslayer: This buff will no longer give 
   excessive critical strike rating to low-level characters.
-  The Twilight Ridge: Burning Legion creatures in this region will now
   drop Marks of Kil'jaeden, Fel Armaments, and Oshu'gun Crystal Powder 
   Samples.
   
Bug Fixes
-  Fixed a memory leak that may occur when a player alt-tabs out of the 
   game, engages a screensaver, or locks their machine.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.1.1 (2007-06-05)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bugs
-  Players will now be able to properly destroy the infernals in the 
   quest,"The Fel and the Furious".
-  Gladiator's Plate Legguards:  Fixed a graphical display error.
-  Fixed a bug that caused some systems to see terrain holes appear in
   the distance.
-  Stackable items retrieved from mail will no longer automatically 
   stack in your inventory.  This has been disabled pending a future 
   patch fix.
-  Players will no longer see the flickering terrain issues that were
   introduced with 2.1.0 when the LOD system is enabled.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.1.0b (2007-05-30)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bugs
- Fixed a bug causing graphical corruption and client crashes.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.1.0 (2007-05-22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Black Temple

The Temple of Karabor was the center of draenei worship until its 
priests were slaughtered by demonically corrupted orcs. In the 
massacre's aftermath the warlocks of the Shadow Council seized the 
structure and gave it a new name: the Black Temple.

When the Alliance invaded Draenor after the Second War, the orc shaman 
Ner'zhul hastily opened several dimensional portals in order to escape.
The resulting magical backlash ripped the world apart. Drawn by these 
portals, the pit lord Magtheridon arrived in what had come to be known
as Outland and took the temple as his seat of power.

His dominion over Outland remained unchallenged until the arrival of 
Illidan the Betrayer. The pit lord proved no match for the wielder of 
the Twin Blades of Azzinoth. Today Illidan occupies the temple, 
awaiting any and all who would challenge his rule.

Druid Epic Flight Form Introduced

The Druid Epic flight form will be available through a series of quests,
similar to the Warlock and Paladin Epic mount quests before it. This 
quest series will also open up a new boss in Sethekk Halls, and 
ultimately lead to the epic flight form.

Ethereum Prison

Players in good standing with the Consortium will be tasked to deal with
the most recent activities of the nefarious Ethereum. With new quests, 
items, and content for the solo and small-group level 70 player, the 
Ethereum Prison will be the proving grounds for many aspiring to 
greatness.

Skettis

The Skyguard, Sha’tari warriors specializing in their command of the 
skies above Shattrath, have taken the offensive directly to the Arakkoa
capital city, Skettis. Perched high in the mountains of Terrokar, and 
only accessible with use of a flying mount, Skettis holds new and 
exciting content for the solo or small-group level 70 player. All new 
quests, 5-person bosses, rare and epic items, and a new type of flying 
mount await those willing to lend their sword or stave to the battle.

Nether Drake

The Netherwing faction and quest line continues and the long awaited 
Nether Drake becomes available. The Nether Drake is a special 280% speed
epic flying mount that is obtainable through solo and small-group play.
The quest to obtain one will be difficult, but the reward will surely 
show your dedication to the Netherwing cause as you soar through the 
skies of Outland on your very own ethereal drake.

Ogri’la

The ogre plateau of enlightenment opens to those who prove their worth
in Blade’s Edge Mountains. Level 70 players will be able to help the
ogres of Ogri’la battle invading forces and engage in new and exciting 
quests, such as a repeatable and ever popular bombing-run, this time 
using your own flying mount but with a dangerous twist! Featuring tons 
of new quests, the Ogri’la faction, 5-person bosses, and rare and epic 
items, Ogri’la is a place we’re hoping all will aspire to enter.

The Ruins of Lordaeron Arena

For those combatants engaging in the Steamwheedle Cartel’s gladiatorial
combat, an arena nestled within the Ruins of Lordaeron has been added 
to the mix of venues.  Players taking part in either rated battles or 
skirmishes may now find themselves battling for glory within the new 
arena.

General
-  The Black Temple is now available for play and Illidan awaits.  Are 
   you prepared?
-  The Consortium and Protectorate need your help! Players with Honored
   or higher reputation with the Consortium should seek out Protectorate
   Advisor Rahim at the Stormspire in Netherstorm or Commander Ameer at
   the Protectorate Watch Post in Netherstorm to get a briefing on the 
   most recent nefarious activities of the Ethereum. 
-  Skettis is now available.  Players will need a flying mount to reach
   this new area.
-  Nether Drakes are now in the game and can be gained by continuing the
   Netherwing faction and quest line.
-  Ogri'la is now available.  Level 70 players can find this new quest 
   line in Blade's Edge Mountains.
-  Glancing Blows have significantly less of a chance to occur during a
   player’s melee attacks when targets are near the player’s level.
-  Magtheridon and Kael'thas now drop items that may be turned in for 
   rewards.
-  Spell Haste: The amount of spell haste rating needed per percentage 
   of haste has been increased substantially. However, spell haste will 
   now affect channeled spells, increasing the rate of their effects and
   decreasing their total duration. The same amount of damage/healing 
   per casting will occur, but will take less time.
-  Chance to break crowd control from damage: The increased chance for 
   a spell to break from taking a critical strike has been removed.  
   Instead, all targets over level 60 have a slightly larger chance to
   break out of crowd-controlling effects when they take damage.
-  Screenshots captured using the Print Screen key are now saved in JPG 
   format.
-  Inspect distance has been increased to 30 yards (from 10 yards).
-  The amount of parry rating needed to get 1% parry has been reduced 
   by 25%.
-  Many set bonuses did not work properly when combined with an item or
   enchantment that had the exact same effect at the exact same 
   magnitude. That issue has been corrected on all set bonuses. 
-  Taunts: The taunt system has been adjusted so that Warrior Taunt, 
   Druid Growl, and Paladin Righteous Defense will now grant the player
   the correct amount of threat even when the creature or its target is
   crowd controlled.
-  Dodge Rating: Low level players now calculate dodge from dodge rating
   at the same rate as level 34 players.
-  The negative effect of the orc racial ability Blood Fury no longer 
   stacks with other effects that reduce healing (Mortal Strike, 
   Wounding Poison, etc.) 
-  Characters can now speak with Orphan Matron Mercy in Shattrath City 
   during Children’s Week to mentor a draenei (Alliance) or blood elf 
   (Horde) orphan. Shattrath orphans have a whole new line of sight-
   seeing requests across both Outland and Azeroth and three new pets 
   to offer to their mentors.

PvP
-  Arenas
   The Ruins of Lordaeron Arena is now available for play.
   The Shadow Sight buff now allows players to see other stealthed 
   players at a greater range.
-  Battlegrounds
   The new battleground matchmaking system is now implemented and 
   active.  This system allows the battleground to select teams of 
   similar equipment quality and organizational level to battle each 
   other.  For now, the system will be very forgiving about creating 
   matchups in order to keep queue times low.  However, the parameters 
   will be adjusted as necessary when more organized teams become active
   in the battlegrounds.

Druids
-  The Druid Epic Flight Form is now available through a series of 
   quests.
-  Barkskin now reduces all damage taken, with its duration reduced 
   to 12 seconds and cooldown reduced to 1 minute. The tooltip has been
   adjusted to indicate this ability can be used while frozen, 
   incapacitated, or cowering in fear. That functionality was already 
   present, but not listed in the tooltip.
-  Bear Form and Dire Bear Form: The bonus health from shapeshifting
   into these forms will again be removed correctly when shifting out of
   these forms.
-  Bestial Wrath: The immunity granted by thtis ability now lasts the 
   full duration of the ability. Bestial Wrath now grants immunity to 
   Cyclone. Cyclone will no longer prevent the immunities from being 
   granted. 
-  Celestial Focus: The delay on the stun effect for Starfire has been 
   reduced. 
-  Cyclone: This ability will no longer work on hunters with The 
   Beast Within active or hunter pets with Bestial Wrath active.
-  Feral Charge now suppresses all Slowing effects while charging the 
   target.
-  Fixed a data error that caused Swiftmend to generate more threat 
   than intended.
-  Force of Nature: These pets will now come into the game with full 
   health, including that gained from a percentage of their master's 
   stamina.
-  Force of Nature: The Treants summoned by this spell will now 
   correctly attack your target even if it is neutral or non-aggressive.
-  Gift of the Wild, ranks 1 and 2, are now available on trainers.
-  Gift of the Wild: Rank 3 of this ability now has the same range as
   ranks 1 and 2.
-  Improved Leader of the Pack: This ability will no longer generate 
   threat.
-  Lacerate: The tooltip has been adjusted to indicate it does initial
   bleed damage when the ability first lands.
-  Lifebloom: Each additional application of this spell will now 
   include the full bonus from effects which increase healing. The final
   heal, however, is still unaffected by stacking multiple applications 
   of this spell.
-  Mangle(Bear): Damage increased by 15%, but bonus threat reduced so 
   that overall threat generation will be unchanged.
-  Nature's Grace: This talent is now triggered by Swiftmend and 
   Lifebloom, and is triggered by and affects Cyclone.
-  Nature's Grasp: The mana cost has been removed from all ranks as
   intended.
-  Omen of Clarity: This spell is no longer castable in Tree of Life
   Form or Moonkin Form.
-  Prowlwill now be broken correctly by damage shields such as Oil
   of Immolation.
-  Rake: The tooltip has been adjusted to indicate the initial damage
   done is bleed damage. In addition, Rake can now always be 
   re-applied, even when Mangle is active.
-  Shapeshifting will no longer remove the Rotting 
   Putrescence creature debuff.
-  Subtlety (Restoration Talent) now applies to all spells, not just 
   healing spells.
-  Swiftmend: This ability will now be correctly penalized for casting
   low rank Rejuvenations and Regrowths just as other healing spells
   are penalized.
-  Swiftmend:  The button for this ability will now be greyed out when
   your current target does not have Rejuvenation or Regrowth.
-  Teleport: Moonglade: This spell is no longer castable in Tree of 
   Life Form.
-  Tree of Life Form: The tooltip has been corrected to indicate 
   Nature's Swiftness and Rebirth are castable in this form.

Hunters
-  A new Avoidance ability can now be taught to hunter pets. This 
   effect reduces the damage they take from area of effect spells and
   abilities.
-  A new Cobra Reflexes ability can now be taught to hunter pets. This
   effect increases attack speed but reduces damage.
-  Arcane Shot: Casting lower ranks of Arcane Shot than your maximum
   rank will now reduce the bonus you receive from attack power.
-  Aspect of the Cheetah/Pack: Wand damage will again correctly daze 
   players with this effect active.
-  Clever Traps now affects Snake Trap.
-  Entrapment (Survival): Effect duration reduced to 4 seconds and is 
   now subject to diminishing returns in PvP.
-  Entrapment: The tooltip has been corrected to indicate it works on
   Snake Trap.
-  Expose Weakness: The chance for this talent to trigger has 
   increased to 33/66/100% chance at 1/2/3 talent points.
-  Ferocious Inspiration: This ability will now trigger Kill Command
   correctly.
-  Flare cooldown increased to 20 seconds, and duration reduced to 20 
   seconds.
-  Frenzy: This talent can now trigger from Kill Command.
-  Frost Trap: This trap no longer breaks stealth from its slowing 
   effect.
-  Go for the Throat no longer causes additional threat.
-  Hunter's Mark: This ability now becomes stronger each time the 
   target is struck by a ranged attack.
-  Improved Hunter's Mark: Adjusted the tooltip to indicate this 
   talent only grants melee attack power equal to the base ranged attack
   power on the Hunter's Mark.
-  Kill Command has been removed from the global cooldown. The shout
   animation has been removed.
-  Kill Command: This ability will now still work even when your pet 
   is out of your line of sight.
-  Readiness: Now resets the cooldown on Misdirection.
-  Revive Pet: The tooltip has been adjusted to indicate the pet 
   returns with a percentage of its base health. It will not get an 
   increased percentage of the bonus health it receives from a 
   percentage of its master's stamina.
-  Scatter Shot: This ability will now trigger Kill Command when
   it critically strikes.
-  Scorpid Poison: Ranks of this ability now appear in correct order 
   in the pet training window. 
-  Survival Instincts now also increase attack power by 2/4%.
-  The quest creature, Death Ravager, is no longer able to be tamed.
-  The Razorfang Ravager can now be tamed.
-  Hunter Mend Pet/Improved Mend Pet Changes:
      Replaced the current Mend Pet channel spell with an instant cast
      heal over time.
      No combat reset, resets global cooldown
      The mana cost has been reduced and the heal value increased.
      Duration on Heal Over Time increased to 15 seconds in 3 second 
      increments.
      Changed the graphic to better represent the Heal Over Time effect 
      on the pet.
      The Mend Pet heal over time buff is now able to be dispelled.
      Bonus healing gear will no longer effect Mend Pet.
      Added a 10% and 20% reduction to the mana cost of Mend Pet in 
      Improved Mend Pet talent (Beast Mastery).

Mages
-  Added a new rank of Ice Barrier to mage trainers.
-  Arcane Brilliance, rank 1, is now available from trainers.
-  Arcane Brilliance: Rank 2 of this ability now has the same range
   as rank 1.
-  Arcane Missiles: Rank 3-11 will now consistently pulse 5 shots of
   arcane damage.
-  Arcane Missiles: This spell is now affected by Spell Haste.
-  Arctic Winds (Frost Talent) now also increases all Frost damage 
   caused by 1-5%.
-  Cold Snap: The tooltip has been adjusted to indicate it only resets
   cooldowns caused by Frost spells. e.g.: Cold Snap will not reset 
   the cooldown caused by Dragon's Breath.
-  Conjure Mana Emerald: This spell now triggers a global cooldown as
   intended.
-  Counterspell duration reduced to 8 seconds, and the cooldown reduced 
   to 24 seconds.
-  Fixed some data errors that caused Arcane Blast, Ice Lance and 
   Molten Armor to generate more threat than intended.
-  Frostbite effect is now subject to diminishing returns in PvP.
-  Frostbolt: Damage on rank 12 has been increased slightly to ensure 
   it did more damage than rank 11 at all levels.
-  Hypothermia: If this debuff would prevent you from casting a spell 
   on a given target, the button for that ability is now grayed out.
-  Ice Armor: Rank 5 will now still trigger when all 
   damage received is prevented by a damage shield, such as Mana 
   Shield.
-  Ice Block: This ability no longer makes mages immune to Weakened 
   Soul from Power Word: Shield. However, using this ability now 
   causes Hypothermia, making the mage unable to cast Ice Block 
   again for 30 sec. 
-  Improved Fire Ward: This talent will now work correctly with rank 
   6 of Fire Ward.
-  Invisibility: Clarified the tooltip on this ability to indicate 
   any action breaks the invisibility affect.
-  Molten Armor: This ability will no longer be triggered erroneously
   by some non-melee attacks, such as Feral Faerie Fire. It will also 
   no longer break crowd controlling affects such as Polymorph.
-  Spell Steal: Stolen buffs that affect specific spells from the 
   original target's class will no longer have any effect for the mage.
-  The Arcane Blast debuff can no longer be dispelled.
-  Water Elemental: This pet will now come into the game with full 
   health and mana, including that gained from a percentage of its 
   master's stamina and intellect.

Paladins
-  Ardent Defender (Protection Talent) now reduces damage taken by 
   6-30% when below 35% health.
-  Avenger's Shield no longer has a minimum range. It may be used on
   any target within 30 yards.
-  Avenger's Shield: The damage portion of this ability will now be 
   applied even if the victim is immune to snare.
-  Blessing of Light: Paladins can now cast this as intended when they
   have Greater Blessing of Light on themselves.
-  Consecration: Corrected a tooltip typo. Low ranks of this ability 
   being cast by high-level players are now being properly penalized.
-  Divine Shield: This ability no longer removes or prevents the 
   Weakened Soul debuff.
-  Eye for an Eye: Some spells did not trigger Eye for an Eye 
   correctly. That has been fixed.
-  Fixed some data errors that caused Seal of Command and Seal of 
   Blood to generate more threat than intended.
-  Forbearance: It is no longer possible to use a macro to gain the 
   benefit of Avenging Wrath and Divine Shield at the same time.
-  Forbearance: If this debuff would prevent you from casting a spell
   on a given target, the button for that ability is now grayed out.
-  Greater Blessing of Kings: The cost for this blessing is now twice
   the cost of Blessing of Kings, instead of a fixed cost of 150.
-  Greater Blessing of Sanctuary 2: The range on this spell was 
   incorrectly set to 30 yards. It has been changed to 40 yards.
-  Greater Blessing of Wisdom 3: The range on this spell was 
   incorrectly set to 30 yards. It has been changed to 40 yards.
-  Hammer of Wrath: Rank 4, damage increased.
-  Illumination: This talent now only gives 50% of the mana cost of 
   the critical heal. It also now returns the correct amount of mana 
   when used with ranks 4 and 5 of Holy Shock.
-  Improved Concentration Aura (Protection Talent) no longer increases 
   resistance to Interrupt/Silence mechanics, but instead reduces the 
   duration of Interrupt/Silence mechanics by 10/20/30%.
-  Improved Sanctity Aura now increases all damage caused by affected 
   targets by 1/2% and no longer increases healing done to affected 
   targets. 
-  Improved Seal of Righteousness:  The percentage increase in damage
   from this talent is now applied after all bonuses from items and 
   effects which increase your spell damage.
-  New Protection Talent added: Improved Holy Shield, 2 ranks: 
   Increases damage caused by Holy Shield by 10/20% and increases the
   number of charges of Holy Shield by 2/4.
-  One-Handed Weapon Specialization (Protection): Now increases
   all damage caused by the paladin by 1-5% while a one-handed weapon is
   equipped.
-  Seal of Blood: This seal will no longer cause additional chances 
   for weapon procs to trigger.
-  Seal of Righteousness: This seal will no longer cause additional 
   chances for weapon procs to trigger.
-  Seal of the Crusader: The rank 7 tooltip has been fixed to read 
   the same as other ranks of this spell.
-  Spiritual Attunement: First-aid generated healing will no longer 
   trigger this ability. However, Lifebloom, Earth Shield, and 
   Improved Leader of the Pack will now trigger it correctly. The 
   tooltip has been adjusted to indicate it only works on healing from 
   spells. 
-  Spiritual Attunement: Mana is no longer healed if the paladin is 
   at full health.
-  Stoicism (Protection) should now properly affect all magic effects cast by the 
   Paladin and no longer applies double its intended benefit to 
   Blessing of Might and Blessing of Wisdom.
-  Vengeance (Retribution Talent) now increases Holy and Physical damage
   by 1/2/3/4/5% for 15 seconds following a critical hit, but the effect
   now stacks up to 3 times.  
-  Vindicator Aesom at Blood Watch will now correctly train a full range of paladin 
   spells.

Priests
-  Binding Heal: The mana cost has been reduced by 32%. The tooltip 
   has been adjusted to indicate it is a low threat spell, which was 
   already the case.
-  Blackout: The delay on the stun effect has been reduced. 
-  Circle of Healing (Holy) effect increased.
-  Empowered Healing and Holy Concentration now affect Binding 
   Heal.
-  Focused Power (Discipline) now also increases the chance to hit with
   Mass Dispel, reduces the cast time of Mass Dispel but no longer 
   increases the damage against feared targets.
-  Holy Fire: The rank 9 tooltip has been corrected to indicate it 
   does Holy damage.
-  Holy Nova: Rank 2 will no longer receive double the 
   intended increase in range from Holy Reach.
-  Mass Dispel mana cost reduced.
-  Mind control no longer has a 100 yard range limitation in instances.
-  Pain Suppression now reduces damage taken by 65% and increases 
   resistance to Dispel mechanics by 65% for the duration.
-  Power Infusion: This ability is now unuseable on Rogues or Warriors.
-  Power Word: Shield: The Weakened Soul effect will no longer 
   sometimes be re-applied while zoning with this buff on.
-  Prayer of Fortitude: The range on rank 3 has been changed to match
   all other ranks of this spell.
-  Prayer of Fortitude, ranks 1 and 2, are now available on trainers.
-  Prayer of Mending: This spell is now affected by Silent Resolve, 
   Amplify Magic, and Dampen Magic.
-  Prayer of Shadow Protection, rank 1, is now available on trainers.
-  Reflective Shield: When this effect is triggered, the priest will 
   no longer be forced to stand up.
-  Shadowfiend: This pet will now come into the game with full health
   and mana, including that gained from a percentage of its master's 
   stamina and intellect.
-  Shadowfiend: The Shadowfiend will now correctly attack your target
   even if it is neutral or non-aggressive.
-  Shadowfiend: Increased the Shadowfiend's chance to hit higher level
   enemies. 
-  Shadowguard: The rank 7 tooltip is now consistent with all other
   ranks of Shadowguard.
-  Shadow Weaving (Shadow): Effect reduced by 1% per rank and Mana Burn
   will now correctly trigger this talent.
-  Shadow Word: Death: Cooldown increased to 12 sec and will now 
   properly damage the casting Priest when it is reflected.
-  Silent Resolve: Some priest spells were unaffected by this talent.
   They should now all be affected.
-  Spirit of Redemption and Spiritual Guidance now work while the 
   priest is in Shadowform.
-  Spirit Tap: This ability will no longer be triggered by killing 
   some creature-cast totems.
-  Spiritual Guidance: This talent now works while the Priest is in 
   Shadowform.
-  Surge of Light: Smite spells triggered by this talent will no 
   longer sometimes critically strike. In addition, the free Smite 
   granted will not consume the effect of Inner Focus. Holy Nova 
   heals can now trigger Surge of Light as well.
-  Touch of Weakness: This spell can now activate Surge of Light.
-  Vampiric Touch: This spell now consumes the Inner Focus buff.
-  Weakened Soul: If this debuff would prevent you from casting a spell
   on a given target, the button for that ability is now grayed out.

Rogues
-  Added a new double-attack animation for Mutilate.
-  Added a visual, sound, and combat log message when the Cheat Death
   talent saves the rogue from death. 
-  Blade Twisting: The delay on the daze effect has been reduced. 
-  Cloak of Shadows: The tooltip has been adjusted to indicate this 
   ability removes hostile effects, rather than dispels them. Cloak 
   of Shadows does not count as a dispel, and will not interact with 
   dispel resistance or effects triggered by dispelling. This ability
   no longer removes the Weakened Soul debuff.
-  Deadly Throw: This ability will now damage hunters and their pets
   when they are affected by The Beast Within or Bestial Wrath. 
   Those targets will still be immune to the movement impairing portion
   of Deadly Throw.
-  Fixed a data error that caused Ghostly Strike and Riposte to 
   generate more threat than intended.
-  Fixed a bug where the Silence effect on Garrote was getting 
   resisted too often.
-  Gouge: This ability will no longer trigger poisons (and thus break 
   itself). 
-  Insignia of the Alliance/Horde and Medallion of the 
   Alliance/Horde now remove Fear, Stun and Polymorph effects 
   and no longer remove Charm effects.
-  Improved Sap (Subtlety) renamed Dirty Tricks: Increases the 
   range of your Sap and Blind abilities by 2/4 yards and reduces 
   the energy cost of your Sap and Blind abilities by 25/50%.
-  Increased the frequency and amount of Blinding Powder found in 
   pickpocketed junk boxes.
-  Mutilate: This ability will now always consume the Cold Blood 
   buff when it strikes an opponent.
-  Poisons: The difficulty of dispelling these is now based off the 
   level of the player, not the level of the weapon the poison is 
   applied to.
-  Reduced the reagents required to create most poisons.
-  Remorseless Attacks(Assassination): Hemorrhage added to the buff
   tooltip. This ability will no longer trigger from killing totems.
-  Rogue poisons no longer have charges.
-  Sap no longer removes you from stealth when used.
-  Shadowstep (Subtlety): The cooldown has been reduced to 15 seconds.
-  Stealthwill now be broken correctly by damage shield such as Oil
   of Immolation.
-  Surprise Attacks (Combat): This talent now correctly prevents 
   Envenom from being dodged.
-  Sword Specialization: This ability now grants extra yellow attacks
   instead of extra white attacks.  This change will make Sword 
   Specialization no longer reset the weapon swing timer when it 
   triggers off special attacks, and results in a net increase in damage
   dealt.

Shaman
-  Earth Elemental Totem: This pet will now come into the game with 
   full health, including that gained from a percentage of its master's 
   stamina.
-  Earth Shield: Adjusted the tooltip to indicate this ability works 
   against all types of attacks, not just melee. This ability will also
   now properly trigger only from taking direct damage effects.
-  Earth Shock: Rank 8 is now properly considered an Interrupt effect 
   for talents and abilities that affect interrupts. 
-  Elemental Focus: This talent now reduces the cost of the next  
   damage spell by 60%. It will also now trigger from bonus spells cast
   by Lightning Overload.
-  Eye of the Storm (Elemental): Clarified the tooltip on this talent 
   to indicate it only works with Shaman spells.
-  Fire Elemental Totem: This pet will now come into the game with 
   full health and mana, including that gained from a percentage of its 
   master's stamina and intellect. It will also now properly get 
   increased stamina from a percentage of its master's stamina.
-  Flametongue Weapon: This effect will no longer trigger while you 
   are disarmed.
-  Frostbrand Weapon: Rank 6 now properly receives increased 
   effect from spell damage bonuses.
-  Healing Focus: The tooltip has been adjusted to indicate it only 
   works with Shaman spells. e.g.: Does not work with Gift of the 
   Naaru.
-  Healing Way: This talent now correctly modifies the healing done 
   after all bonus effects have been applied.
-  Heroism: Training cost increased to match the cost of Bloodlust.
-  Lightning Shield: Ranks 8 and 9 of this spell now trigger correctly
   while mounted.
-  Magma Totem: This totem will now correctly do damage on its 10th 
   tick, right before despawning.
-  Mana Spring Totem: Duration increased to 2 minutes.
-  Mana Tide Totem: This totem will no longer sometimes grant mana 
   after it has been destroyed. It will also consistently grant mana 4
   times instead of sometimes 3 and sometimes 5.
-  Healing Stream Totem: Duration increased to 2 minutes.
-  Mental Quickness: This talent now correctly reduces the cost of 
   Purge, Flame Shock, Frost Shock, Earth Shock, Bloodlust, 
   Heroism, Lightning Shield, Cure Poison, and Cure Disease.
-  Nature's Guardian (Restoration): Some spells and abilities did not 
   trigger this talent. That has been fixed.
-  Restorative Totems (Restoration): This talent no longer gives a 
   bonus to a variety of jewelcrafting items.
-  Trainer Animations: All new Shaman abilities will now correctly play
   the training animation when learned.
-  Water Shield: When a Shaman with this spell active is afflicted 
   with Cyclone, the charge burned will now grant mana.
-  Windfury Weapon: Mixing two different ranks of Windfury Weapon 
   while dual-wielding will no longer increase the number of Windfury 
   Weapon procs.
-  Windfury Weapon: A bug with this spell was making off-hand procs 
   receive less bonus damage than intended.  It is now fixed.

Warlocks
-  Aftermath: The delay on the daze effect has been reduced. 
-  Amplify Curse: This ability is now consumed correctly by a 
   Curse of Doom casting.
-  Conflagrate: The button for this ability will now be greyed out when
   your current target does not have Immolate.
-  Create Healthstone: These abilities will now be sorted in rank 
   order in your spellbook.
-  Create Spellstone: These abilities will now be sorted in rank order
   in your spellbook.
-  Curse of the Elements and Curse of Shadow now have a duration of
   2 minutes when used on PvP targets.
-  Curse of Tongues now has a 12 second duration when used on PvP 
   targets.
-  Dark Pact: This ability is now unuseable while the mana and health 
   of a pet are being adjusted by pet scaling. 
-  Death Coil is now is now subject to diminishing returns in the Horror
   category.  Currently, only Death Coil is in this category.
-  Demonic Knowledge: This ability will now work with enslaved demons.
-  Enslave Demon: The health bar and mana bar for enslaved demons will
   no longer appear to go down when they become enslaved.
-  Felguard: This pet will periodically check to see if you know the 
   talent which allows you to summon it, and die if you do not know the 
   talent.
-  Fixed some data errors that caused Soul Leech and Conflagrate to 
   generate more threat than intended.
-  Improved Drain Soul: This talent will no longer trigger when a 
   creature other than the one you are draining dies.
-  Insignia of the Alliance/Horde and Medallion of the 
   Alliance/Horde now remove Fear, Stun and Slowing effects and 
   no longer remove Charm and Polymorph effects.
-  New art added for Ritual of Souls channeling focus and Soulwell 
   created by the spell.
-  Ritual of Souls no longer consumes a Soul Shard when cast in 
   arenas.
-  Seed of Corruption: This spell will now interact properly with 
   town guards when bystanders are hit by its detonation in a duel. 
-  Shadowfury now properly benefits from the Intensity talent.
-  Soulstones:  Soulstones can no longer be used on targets not in 
   your party or raid.  In addition, the soulstone buff will now be 
   removed if the target or caster leaves the party or raid. 
-  Spell Lock (Felhunter) duration reduced to 5 seconds (rank 1) and 6
   seconds (rank 2), and cooldown reduced to 24 seconds.
-  Soulwell now plays a sound and visual effect when you create a 
   Healthstone through using it.
-  Soul Link: Adjusted tooltip to explain that the damage transferred
   to the pet cannot be prevented. The functionality remains unchanged. 
   This ability will now work with enslaved demons.
-  Unholy Power: The tooltip has been corrected to indicate it works 
   with the Imp's Firebolt.

Warriors
-  Bloodrage: It is no longer possible to gain extra rage from this 
   ability by using tradeskills to keep you in combat.
-  Charge, Intercept and Intervene now suppress all Slowing 
   effects while charging the target.
-  Charge: This ability will now properly cause the warrior to go into
   combat with its target. 
-  Commanding Shout: This ability now increases your max health, but
   keeps your percentage health constant.
-  Death Wish and Enrage effects no longer stack.
-  Execute: When used with Sweeping Strikes, ranks 6 and 7 of this
   ability will no longer cause full damage to secondary targets who are
   not wounded.
-  Flurry: Ranks 1-4 will no longer trigger from ranged critical 
   strikes.
-  Flurry, Fury Talent, now increases attack speed by 5/10/15/20/25%,
   reduced from 10/15/20/25/30.
-  Heroic Strike: The rank 10 tooltip now includes specific 
   values for the bonus damage against dazed targets.
-  Improved Hamstring: The delay on the immobilize effect has been reduced. 
-  Improved Revenge: Reduced the delay on the stun landing from a 
   successful Revenge.
-  Insignia of the Alliance/Horde and Medallion of the 
   Alliance/Horde now removes Immobilizing, Stun and Polymorph
   effects and no longer remove Slowing effects.
-  Shield Slam: Rank 3 of this ability no longer gets its cost reduced
   twice by the Focused Rage talent (Protection).
-  Spell Reflection no longer has a global cooldown.
-  Sweeping Strikes: This ability will no longer be modified erroneously
   on additional targets by percent modifiers to your damage. 
-  Sword Specialization: This ability now grants extra yellow attacks 
   instead of extra white attacks.  It also grants rage based on the 
   speed of your weapon.  This change will make Sword Specialization 
   no longer reset the weapon swing timer when it triggers off special 
   attacks, and results in a net increase in damage dealt. 
-  Victory Rush: The tooltip has been adjusted to calculate the damage
   it deals correctly, 45% of Attack Power, not 35%.


Pets
-  Abilities and items that are triggered when you kill a target are 
   also now triggered when your pet kills a target.
-  Fixed the amount of happiness lost when you dismiss a Nether Ray pet.
-  Voidwalkers will stop while they are consuming shadows.
-  Warlock and Hunter pets will now be automatically dismissed when 
   you summon a mount. These pets will return on dismount. This does 
   not affect pet happiness for Hunters. 
-  Warlock and Hunter pets will now be automatically dismissed when you
   untalent.

Items
-  The majority of level 70 epic items have been upgraded to reflect 
   their intended power.
-  Armor: All Burning Crusade items that spent part of their budget on
   increased armor have been re-evaluated. Some gained additional armor,
   while others gained other additional bonuses.
-  Common unique items will not drop for you if you already have them in
   your inventory.
-  Items which start quests you've already completed will show the 
   correct feedback if you try to use them.
-  Heroic difficulty instances end bosses will now always drop an epic
   item, in addition all bosses in Heroic difficulty instances will have
   a chance to drop an epic gem!
-  Additional darkmoon cards can now be found on high level outland
   creatures. They can be turned in to the darkmoon faire to make 
   powerful new darkmoon card trinkets. Look for Lunacy, Storms, Furies
   and Blessings cards.
-  Serpent-Coil Braid: The bonus spell damage from this trinket is now 
   removed if the trinket is unequipped.
-  Argussian Compass: A bug where this trinket sometimes caused all the
   damage from an attack to be absorbed has been fixed.
-  Health Regeneration: This effect on random property items has been
   renamed to Health per 5 sec.
-  Khorium Lockboxes will now drop occasionally off creatures over 
   level 65.
-  Devilsaur Tooth: This item has been reverted to pre-Burning Crusade
   design, granting an automatic critical strike to your pet's next 
   attack.
-  Nethershard, Ceremonial Kris, Illidari-Bane Mageblade, 
   Summoner's Blade, Thunderlord Scalpel, Vibro Dagger, Vibro 
   Sword, and Revered Mother's Crysknife: These weapons can now only
   be used in the main hand.
-  The Serpentshrine Shuriken can now be sold to vendors.
-  Xavian Stiletto can now be sold to vendors.
-  Wand of Biting Cold can now be sold to vendors.
-  Bloodseeker now can now be sold to vendors.
-  The Ironscale War Cloak can now be disenchanted.
-  Boots of the Infernal Coven can now be disenchanted.
-  Crown of Endless Knowledge can now be disenchanted.
-  Valanos' Longbow can now be disenchanted.
-  Ravager's Cuffs can now be disenchanted.
-  Deep Core Lantern can now be disenchanted.
-  The Devilshark Cape can now be disenchanted.
-  Demon Hide Spaulders can now be disenchanted.
-  Gladiator's Heavy Crossbow can no longer be disenchanted.
-  Tranquilien Reputation Items: Some of the items on this vendor were 
   disenchantable. They no longer are disenchantable.
-  Gladiator's Endgame can no longer be disenchanted.
-  Corrected a typo in the tooltip of The Hammer of Destiny's proc.
-  Corrected a typo in the tooltip of Anesthetic Poison in regards to 
   the number of charge applied.
-  Malefic Raiment: Corrected a tooltip calculation error.
-  Bangle of Endless Blessings: Fixed tooltip error on Meditation 
   effect.
-  Cataclysm Harness: Fixed a tooltip error on Invigorated effect.
-  Updated the tooltip for Vengeance of the Illdari to clarify that it
   increases spell damage.
-  Blade of Eternal Darkness: The tooltip has been adjusted to 
   indicate it only works with direct damage spells.
-  Wushoolay's Charm of Nature: The tooltip has been corrected to 
   indicate it grants spell haste.
-  Corrected a naming inconsistency with Windchanneller's items.
-  Figurine of the Colossus corrected a typo in the tooltip of the 
   buff provided by this item.
-  Marsh Lichen: This food is now considered a fungus.
-  Stromgarde Muenster is now correctly considered cheese for the 
   purposes of feeding pets.
-  Edible Fern now triggers a global cooldown on use.
-  Rumsey Rum, Rumsey Rum Light, Rumsey Rum Dark, Rumsey Rum 
   Black Label, Halaani Whiskey, Gordok Green Grog, Raptor Punch,
   Stormstout, Trogg Ale, and Thunderbrew Lager: The stat bonuses 
   from these drinks no longer stacks with stamina bonuses from other 
   foods.
-  Felguard Annihilators will now drop the proper loot in Heroic 
   difficulty.
-  Khorium Lockboxes will now contain loot of the appropriate level.
-  Aeonus will now properly drop a Primal Nether in Heroic 
   Difficulty.
-  Coilfang Collaborators will now drop the proper loot in Heroic 
   Difficulty.
-  Demon Hunter Supplicants now drop the proper loot.
-  Auchenai Death-Speakers and Doomsayers will now drop the 
   appropriate loot.
-  Netherstrike armor has had it's socket bonuses changed.
-  PvP Set Bonuses: Set bonuses of 35 resilience rating will now stack
   correctly if received from two different sets.
-  Alliance Shaman PvP Sets: These sets now have set bonuses as 
   intended.
-  General’s Dreadweave Boots: Now available for purchase from the PvP 
   vendor as intended.
-  Assassination Set: The haste bonus from this set will no longer be 
   triggered if your attack does not land on the target.
-  Avatar Regalia Set: Tooltips corrected on the Shadow Word: Pain 
   set bonus to indicate the triggered bonus works on the next spell 
   cast only. The bonus also now correctly affects healing spells.
-  Black Dragonscale Set: The hit rating bonus from this set now 
   stacks properly with hit rating bonuses from other effects.
-  Black Dragon Mail Set: The hit rating and critical strike rating 
   set bonuses from this set will now stack correctly with other 
   sources of those ratings.
-  Cataclysm Harness Set: The cast time reduction to Lesser Healing 
   Wave will now be displayed correctly as 1.5 sec in the Invigorated
   tooltip.
-  Cenarion Raiment Set: The spell critical strike rating set bonus 
   will now stack properly with other effects that give spell critical 
   strike rating.
-  Defiler's Purpose Set: The critical strike rating rom this set 
   bonus will now be applied properly.
-  Defiler's Resolution Set: The critical strike rating from this set 
   will now stack correctly with other bonuses to critical strike 
   rating.
-  Devilsaur Armor Set: The hit rating bonus from this set now stacks
   properly with hit rating bonuses from other effects.
-  Devilsaur Set: The hit rating set bonus will now stack correctly 
   with hit rating bonuses from other items.
-  Earthfury Set: The set bonus that increases totem radius now works
   on Wrath of Air Totem.
-  Ebon Netherscale Set: The hit rating bonus from this set will now
   stack correctly with other hit rating bonuses.
-  Frostfire Set: The 4 piece set bonus now works correctly with rank
   4 Mage Armor.
-  Frozen Shadoweave Set: The set bonus from these items will no 
   longer have its tooltip modified by the Vampiric Embrace talent 
   and can no longer cause a critical strike heal.
-  Hallowed Raiment Set: The Binding Heal set bonus on this set has
   been changed to 30% chance to resist losing casting time off Binding
   Heal when taking damage.
-  Imbued Netherweave Set: The critical strike rating set bonus now 
   stacks correctly with other effects that grant critical strike 
   rating.
-  Incanter's Set: Corrected precision error in display of cast time
   reduction in Flamestrike. The actual value is unchanged; it was 
   displaying a rounded-off value before.
-  Justicar Armor Set: The bonus to Seal of Vengeance now functions
   correctly.
-  Malefic Raiment Set: The set bonus granting heals from periodic 
   spells can longer get critical strikes.
-  Netherblade Set: The set bonus giving a chance to gain combo points
   on finishers now works correctly with Slice and Dice and Deadly 
   Throw.
-  Overlord's Resolution Set: The dodge rating bonus from this set 
   now stacks correctly with all other dodge rating effects.
-  Voidheart Set: This set bonus will now trigger correctly from all
   shadow and fire spells.
-  Warbringer Armor Set: The Revenge set bonus will no longer apply
   an excessive bonus to Heroic Strike.
-  Wyrmhide Set: Adjusted the tooltip on Moonfire cost reduction to 
   indicate it is a reduces by a percentage of the base cost, not the 
   talented cost.
-  Nordrassil Regalia: The Regrowth set bonus will now correctly be 
   consumed by the first casting of Regrowth.
-  Clefthoof Hide Leggings: There were two items with this name. The
   world drop item has been renamed as Elekk Hide Leggings.
-  Fathom-Brooch of the Tidewalker: Healing spells and spells which 
   are not critical strikes can now trigger this trinket.
-  Heavenly Inspiration no longer shares a cooldown with other 
   trinkets which temporarily increase spell damage.
-  The Talon of Al'ar: This trinket now applies correctly to Scatter
   Shot and Silencing Shot.
-  Energized Wristwraps: This item was incorrectly set to superior 
   quality. It has been changed to good quality with the stat bonuses
   unchanged.
-  Murloc Eggs: These pet-summoning items are now set to superior 
   quality.
-  Swift Flying Mounts: All the swift flying mounts will now display 
   as epic items, rather than superior-quality items.
-  The Twin-Bladed Ripper icon has been changed.
-  The Netherwhelp's Collar now has it's own unique icon.
-  The Lightsworn Hammer icon has been changed to a mace icon.
-  Replaced the placeholder art for Zeth'gor Shield and Dragonscale
   Shield with permanent art.
-  Staff of Prehistoria: A placeholder icon will no longer become 
   visible when creating this staff.
-  Corrected the stats of Girdle of the Endless Pit.
-  Corrected the stats of Supple Leather Boots.
-  Scroll of Strength V will now give the proper stat increase.
-  Corrected many issues with helmets displaying and not displaying hair
   correctly.
-  The Stealther's Helmet of Second Sight will now properly hide 
   facial hair.
-  Warmaul Helmet: This helmet no longer displays facial hair clipping
   through the helm.
-  The Citrine Pendant of Golden Healing should now properly work on 
   players of all levels.
-  Removed the level requirement on Battle Scarred Leggings.
-  The Consortium Combatant's Robes level requirement has been 
   removed.
-  The Spellfire and Shadoweave tunics have been changed to robes.
-  Robes of Insight will again correctly have its effect consumed by
   casting Blink.
-  Masquerade Gown will now be triggered correctly by any spell, not
   just critical strikes.
-  Adamantite Weight Stones now work on staves and fist weapons.
-  Fel Weightstone now works on fist weapons.
-  Spymaster's Crossbow can now be used by non-hunters.
-  The Azerothian Longbow will now properly display it's firing 
   animation.
-  Halaa Ammo has been reduced in damage and soulbound, but you can 
   carry any number of them.
-  Draenic Light Crossbow now correctly uses arrows and has had it's 
   firing animation corrected.
-  Lead Slug Shotgun: Correct sounds and animations are now attached.
-  Longbeard Rifle now has a gun animation and sound.
-  Dragonbreath Musket, PC-54 Shotgun, Sporting Rifle, and Tauren
   Runed Musket all now have a gun sound and animation instead of 
   crossbow.
-  The Night Blade: The chance for the effect on this item to trigger
   has been reduced.
-  The Flarethorn will now display properly when sheathed.
-  Aldor Guardian Rifle will now work correctly.
-  Mag'hari Light Recurve will now work correctly.
-  Ragehammer again grants increased damage instead of attack power.
-  Searing Needle: The damage effect from this item is fixed and now 
   works correctly.
-  Atiesh, Greatstaff of the Guardian: The party aura from these 
   items will now be reapplied correctly when a player logs into the 
   game while already mounted.
-  Hammer of Destiny: The mana restoring effect from this item will
   now display in the combat log.
-  Earthwarden: Damage when not shapeshifted reduced on this weapon; 
   this was intended to be reduced like other feral weapons, but was 
   overlooked.
-  The Silver Star: This low-level quest reward has been fixed to 
   match the new system for thrown weapons. For technical reasons, all 
   old Silver Stars are now listed as Broken and cannot be used. New
   ones gained will work correctly.
-  Grunt's Waterskin: This item now has the same effect as Footman's 
   Waterskin.
-  The Decapitator should no longer give an immune message when used 
   on certain creature types.
-  The Discombobulator Ray no longer works on flying targets.
-  Goblin Rocket Launcher: When this item stuns a warrior opponent, it
   can now trigger Second Wind.
-  Cosmic Infuser: This item now works with Gift of the Naaru and 
   Holy Nova. It does not work with affects which cause a target to 
   heal themselves, Earth Shield, Lifebloom, Prayer of Mending, 
   etc., or which are caused by draining life or vampirism. Health 
   potions and other consumables will no longer trigger it either.
-  Mana Thistle: Picking this herb will no longer case abilities such
   as Lightning Shield to trigger and burn changes.
-  Nightmare Vine: The poison from picking this herb is now considered
   Nature damage instead of Physical damage.
-  Pendant of the Violet Eye will no longer trigger from spells with 
   no mana cost. It will also no longer get double procs from some 
   Paladin spells.
-  Pendant of Golden Healing: This item no longer gains benefit from
   bonus healing effects.
-  Bangle of Endless Blessings will no longer proc off of tradeskills.
-  Bogslayer Bracers now make the proper sound when moved in your 
   inventory.
-  Reduced the Silence and Interrupt reduction provided by Talisman 
   of the Breaker.
-  Band of the Eternal Champion: This item is no longer triggered from
   being hit by ranged attacks.
-  Band of the Eternal Defender: The effect from this item now only 
   affects the wearer, instead of the whole party.
-  Eye of Gruul has been redesigned to give a chance of healing  
   discount each time a heal is cast.
-  Oculus of the Hidden Eye: The tooltip for this item now specifies
   the user must kill a creature to gain its benefit.
-  Lesser Rune of Warding: This effect will now continue to work 
   correctly after the target dies and resurrects.
-  Greater Rune of Warding: This effect will now continue to work 
   correctly after the target dies and resurrects.
-  Mark of Conquest: The mana energizing effect from this item now 
   correctly occurs on dealing ranged damage instead of taking it.
-  Glyph of Renewal: The mana regeneration from this enchantment will
   now stack correctly with all other mana regeneration effects.
-  Libram of Eternal Rest was causing Judgement of the Crusader not
   to refresh on each hit. That has been fixed.
-  Auslese's Light Channeler: Avenger's Shield will now consume the
   effect from this item.
-  Hazza'rah's Charm of Healing now provides haste rating as intended,
   instead of a fixed reduced cast time.
-  Aegis of Preservation: This item will now correctly heal the user;
   it was showing up in the log, but not increasing actual health.
-  Mystical Skyfire Diamond: The triggering rate on this item has been
   increased, but it now only reduces the cast time on spells by half; 
   and Warlocks casting Corruption with maximum ranks in Improved 
   Corruption will no longer consume the Focus buff from this gem.
-  Lifegiving Gem: This item will now only increase maximum and 
   current health of the user by 1500. It will not also heal the user 
   for 1500.
-  Enraged Fel Sparks now properly drop Motes of Fire instead of 
   Motes of Shadow.
-  Primal Nethers may now be purchased from G'eras for Badges of 
   Justice.
-  Oracle Belt of Timeless Mystery: The On Use effect changed to 
   On Equip as intended.
-  Abyssal Cloth Slippers: There were two items with this name. The 
   ones from the Burning Crusade have been renamed Abyssal Cloth 
   Footwraps.
-  Updated the General's Leather Boots to properly reflect the 
   Alliance counterpart.
-  Area 52 Defender's Pants: Arcane resistance on this item was 
   unintended and has been removed.
-  Brood Mother Leggings: Now has a spell price and can be worn by 
   non-hunters.
-  Razaani-Buster Leggings: This item can now be sold to a vendor.
-  Mok'Nathal Hero's Pantaloons now has a sell price and can be worn
   by non-hunters.
-  Enchant Boots - Vitality: The health regeneration from this 
   enchantment will now work in combat.
-  Enchant Weapon- Spellsurge: The mana gained from this enchantment 
   will now show up in the combat log.
-  Malorne Raiment and Malorne Regalia: These sets no longer erroneously
   apply a reduction in cost to some Druid spells.
-  Cyclone Regalia: The chance for a mana cost reduction to occur has 
   been reduced.
-  Warrior Tier 4 Tanking Set: The Blade Turning Bonus now prevents the
   correct amount of damage, 200.
-  Priest Tier 5 Shadow Set: The Sadist buff will no longer be consumed 
   when casting a spell which does neither damage nor healing.
-  Priest Tier 4 Shadow Set: Mind Flay will now benefit correctly from 
   the 4 piece bonus.
-  Shaman Tier 5 Spell Damage Set: The 4 piece bonus will no longer be 
   triggered by Shocks and Chain Lightning.

Professions
-  Alchemy
   The chance of a discovery occurring while making potions has been 
   substantially increased.
   Elixirs now stack in two categories, Battle (Offensive) and Guardian
   (Defensive) Elixirs. You can only have one of each type of Elixir up
   at a time. As a result Elixirs now stack with class abilities such as
   Arcane Intellect.
   Elixirs now stack to 20.
   Four new defensive elixirs have been added. Two are on trainers, one 
   is in Halaa and one is in Cenarion Expedition.
   Flask of Petrification can no longer be turned off during its 
   duration, but it now will clear all threat from all monsters for 
   the duration of the effect. Though monsters may reacquire you after
   the effect ends.
   Cooldown time on Earthstorm and Skyfire Diamond transmutes has 
   been reduced to 1 day.
   Invulnerability potions now stop the first 120 damage per hit for
   8 seconds, rather than making the imbiber physically immune.
   The major protection potions made by Alchemy now require more Mana
   Thistle and vials, but create 5 potions instead of just one.
   Fel Strength elixirs now work correctly with elixir mastery.
   Elemental Absorption potions now have a 2 minute duration rather 
   than the 60 min duration they used to have.
   Alchemy transmute of Heart of Fire to Elemental Fire changed to
   15 minute cooldown.
   Reagent costs and potency of all flasks has been reduced.
   The cost of Imbued Vials has been reduced.
   The chance to find a Fel Lotus while picking an herb has been 
   increased.
   Juju Chill and Juju Ember are now considered Guardian Elixirs and 
   do not stack with other resistance buffs.
   Juju Flurry is now considered a Battle Elixir and has been converted
   from haste to haste rating.
   Ground Scorpok Assay, Juju Might, Juju Power, Lung Juice 
   Cocktail, and R.O.I.D.S are now considered Battle Elixirs.
   Crystal Force, Crystal Ward,Gizzard Gum, Infallible Mind,
   Juju Escape, Juju Guile, Sheen of Zanza and Swiftness of Zanza 
   are all now considered Guardian Elixirs.
   Sheen of Zanza is now considered a Guardian Elixir. Stamina and 
   Spirit bonuses have been reduced to 25.
   Elixir of Fortitude now correctly displays its name in its buff 
   tooltip.
   The Alchemist's Stone bonus now works on potions that restore both 
   health and mana.
   Super Mana Potions now require 2 Dreaming Glory instead of 2 
   Netherbloom to create. 
   Super Healing Potions now require 2 Netherbloom instead of 2 Dreaming
   Glory to create. 
   Reduced the number of Stonescale Oil required to make Greater 
   Stoneshield Potions. 
   Reduced the reagents required to make Ironshield Potions. 
   New cauldron recipes can now be discovered when making most major 
   protection potions.  Cauldrons can provide an entire raid with a 
   major protection potion. 
-  Enchanting
   Enchant Bracer-Spellpower had its primal costs reduced slightly.
   Enchanting recipes that increase spell damage now also increase 
   healing as well.
   The Major Defense Bracer enchantment has been moved from Ethereum
   Researchers to Ethereum Nullifiers.
-  Engineering
   11 new epic goggles have been introduced at 350 engineering skill 
   and are available from the trainer. They range from cloth to plate,
   and have a variety of stats to appeal to most talent specs.
   A recipe for Frost Grenades and the Icy Blasting Primers needed
   to make them are now on engineering trainers.
   Engineering recipes can now be placed in engineering bags, as can 
   engineer made fireworks.
   Many engineering recipes will now give skillups for longer than the 
   previously did.
   An engineering recipe to make Fused Wiring can be found in both 
   Everlook and Shattrath.
   Engineering Skill required to make the Felsteel Stabilizer, 
   Hardened Adamantite Tube and Khorium Power Core have been reduced
   slightly.
   Adamantite Shells now require less adamantite and do slightly more
   damage.
   The recipe for Elemental Blasting Powder now gives 4 powder when 
   creating it, though it now requires an additional mote of earth.
   Engineers now make 3 Smoke Flares instead of just one when they 
   create them. Also Smoke Flares now have a buy/sell price.
   Seaforium now opens locked chests as well as locked doors.
   The Consortium Vendor Karaaz now sells the engineering recipe for an
   Elemental Seaforium Charge if you are revered with them.
   The Poultryizer has a smaller chance of getting malfunction effects
   and is now a superior quality item.
   The Nigh Invulnerability Belt now has a smaller chance of failure.
   Healing Potion Injectors and Mana Potion Injectors created by 
   engineers now have new icons and the engineering requirement to use
   them has been reduced. 
   Goblin Rocket Launcher now has a 2 minute cooldown, and had its 
   casting time reduced to 3.5 sec.
   Gnomish Flame Turret now creates 3 turrets instead of 1. Thorium Tube
   requirement changed to Fel Iron Casing. 
-  Fishing
   The fishing timer has been reduced from 30 to 20 seconds and it now
   takes less time to fish.-->You now catch fish faster. 
   The fishing timer can no longer run through its duration without a 
   fish biting.
   Fishing has been removed from Arathi Basin and Alterac Valley.
   Fixed a bug where you could catch 2 fish at once in some zones. 
   You can now fish in Underbog.
-  Jewelcrafting
   The jewelcrafting UI now has gems split up by color so it is easier
   to find gems of a specific color to create.
   A new set of more powerful gems can be found by raiding Hyjal and 
   Black Temple. Their stats exceed those of previous gems that could
   be found.
   A number new gem cuts to existing gems have been added to the game.
   Included among them are a spell hit gem and more multi-stat gems that
   have attack power on them.
   Jewelcrafters can make two new melee oriented meta gems. One is found
   randomly as a world drop and the other sold by the  reputation vendor.
   Thorium Setting only requires 1 thorium bar now.
   Many Jewelcrafting recipes that required 200-280 skill to learn now 
   have changed/reduced materials required to make them
   Mithril filigree has a slightly reduced range that it gives skillups.
   A number of jewelcrafting gems now give skill increases for slightly
   longer than they used to.
   Pendant of Blasting and Necklace of Battle will now grant their 
   click effects to players correctly, previously they only worked on 
   characters higher than level 47.
   Jewelcrafting Onslaught ring thorium cost reduced
   The vendor value for the raw green gems have been reduced. This will
   also make these gems cheaper to put up on the auction house (Blood 
   Garnet, Golden Draenite, etc...)
   Prospecting now always yields at least 1 gem.
   Grand Master Jewelcrafters Hamanar (Shattrath City), Jazdalaad (The 
   Stormspire), Kalaen (Thrallmar) and Tatiana (Honor Hold) may teach 
   all levels of Jewelcrafting.
   The recipe for Figurine - Golden Hare no longer requires a 
   Cut Citrine.  It now requires copper bars.
   Several new recipes that use Jaggal and Shadow Pearls have been added
   to jewelcrafting trainers. 
   Increased the chance to find blue gems when prospecting. 
   Removed the 1 hour cooldown when cutting diamonds. 
   Reduced the matching requirements for some diamonds.
-  Leatherworking
   Knothide Armor kits now require less leather to make and give 
   skill increases for longer.
   Leatherworking made Primalstrike set now has an attack power set 
   bonus rather than a strength set bonus.
   Additional snakes that drop cobra scales are in the highlands of 
   nagrand as well as in shadowmoon valley.
   Leatherworker made Drums of Restoration had their health/mana 
   effects reduced slightly.
   Nethercobra Leg Armor and Nethercleft Leg Armor have been 
   slightly improved.
   Heavy Clefthoof Boots, Heavy Clefthoof Leggings, and Heavy 
   Clefthoof Vest have had their armor increased at the expense of 
   some stamina and defense rating.
   Changed the socket bonuses on the Windhawk set to something more
   appropriate. 
-  Herbalism
   The Dreaming Glory buff now correctly works in combat. 
   Netherbloom no longer causes negative effects, although the positive
   effects happen less frequently. Additionally, the effects will not 
   replace one another. 
   Nightmare Vine has a reduced chance to poison the herbalist. 
   Nightmare Seed found with herbalism now requires level 60 to use.
   Underbog Colossus have an increased number of herbs on them when 
   harvested by an herbalist.
-  Additional Profession Changes
   You can now unspecialize in tailoring and alchemy, and then select
   a new specialization.  This is a repeatable choice, but costs gold
   each time.
   Skinning higher level creatures will give more leather; you will no
   longer get a single leather scrap.
   Reduced the time required to skin. 
   Gathering skills no longer fail when you have reached the maximum
   skill possible.
   The Stoneforged Claymore model has been updated.
   Fel Iron Bars now have an icon unique from Felsteel Bars.
   Felsteel Bars are now good quality (green items).
   The Tailoring recipe Ebon Shadowbag no longer drops from Spirit 
   Walkers.
   Profession recipes that had 24 hour or longer cooldowns, have had 
   their cooldowns reduced by 1 hour.
   Added Warped Flesh to high level warpstalkers.
   Alliance Cooks can now purchase the Mok'Nathal Shortrib and 
   Crunchy Serpent recipes at Toshley's Station.
   Monsters will now attack players who are mining mineral nodes near 
   to them, even if they didn't notice them previously.
   Golden Spellthread and Runic Spellthread have been slightly improved.
   Enchant Weapon- Major Spellpower enchant has been stolen from the 
   Razaani spell thieves by the Bash'ir spell thieves. The Bash'ir are 
   more likely to have the recipe than the Razaani previously did, 
   however.
   Imbued Netherweave Tunic and Robe recipes are vendor purchased so
   are now white instead of blue.
   The location of many of the Outland mineral nodes have been adjusted
   both to put them in locations that are more traveled and to make them 
   more likely to be near creatures.
   Essences (Earth, Fire, Air, Water, Living) have had their drop rates
   significantly increased. Also Outland creatures that dropped motes 
   will now have a chance of dropping essences as well.
   Materials required to make the Blacksmithing Adamantite plate armor
   have been reduced.
   Motes of Shadow now primarily drop from void creatures and have been
   removed from nearly all demons. 
   Void Crystals maximum stack size increased to 20 from 10.
   
Quest
-  You can now interact with wanted posters while mounted.
-  Grishnath Orbs can no longer be interacted with unless the 
   character is on the quest, Exorcising the Trees.
-  The Ammen Vale quest, Rescue the Survivors! is now properly flagged
   as draenei-only. Non-draenei who have this quest in their log should 
   abandon it.
-  Fixed a grammatical error in the quest, The Ring of Mmmrrrggglll.
-  The quest, Defiling Uther's Tomb no longer has a time limit 
   attached to it.
-  The level for the Hellfire Peninsula quest, Natural Remedies has
   been dropped from 64 to 63.
-  The Shadowy Disguise for the quest, Who Are They? can no longer
   be gained while shapeshifted.
-  Adjusted a few Restless Bones piles in the Bone Wastes so that they
   were not under the ground.
-  Fixed an issue with the quest, Sabotage the Warp-Gate!, which would
   sometimes fail the escort as it began.
-  The Blade's Edge Mountains quest, On Spirit's Wings is no longer 
   shareable.
-  Fixed some typos in the quest, Reunion.
-  Completing the Horde quest, Reunion, will now auto-launch the next
   quest in the series, On Spirit's Wings.
-  Directions to the Bloodmaul Camp are now included in the quest, The
   Smallest Creatures.
-  The Horde version of the quest, Gorgrom the Dragon-Eater is no 
   longer shareable.
-  Completing the Horde version of the quest Gorgrom the Dragon-Eater
   will now auto-launch the quest, Prisoner of the Bladespire.
-  Directions to Gruul's Lair are now included in the quest, Prisoner 
   of the Bladespire.
-  The Scrap Reaver X6000 from the quest, You, Robot, no longer has
   its Repair ability.
-  Matron Varah of Mok'Nathal Village no longer offers the quest, 
   Understanding the Mok'Nathal. Now, only Leoroxx has that 
   distinction, as was intended.
-  Minimap arrow for the quest, Report to the Allerian Post fixed.
-  Whispers of the Raven God: Understanding Ravenspeech will now hit
   players at range.
-  Bash'ir Landing and Razaan's Landing in Blade's Edge Mountains have 
   been significantly expanded to support questing.
-  Skettis in Terokkar Forest has had some adjustments to support 
   questing.
-  Millhouse Manastorm will now only award players credit for completing
   the Trial of the Naaru: Tenacity upon the death of Harbinger 
   Skyriss and only ONCE. Players will no longer receive credit through
   a gossip option on Millhouse.
-  Goliathon, involved in the Natural Remedies quest, is now level 
   63. Goliathon Shardlings are now level 60-61.
-  Uvuros in Shadowmoon Valley has had its powers and abilities reduced.
-  The Brain Damage buff given from Ethereum Essences now lasts 60 
   seconds.
-  Ethereum Relay corpses will now be viewable and lootable without 
   having to be under the influence of Brain Damage.
-  The quests Trouble at Auchindoun, The Codex of Blood, Into the
   Heart of the Labyrinth, Find Spy To'gun, and The Soul Devices, 
   have had their minimum level reduced to 68.
-  The drop rate for Rotten Arakkoa Eggs used in the quest Of 
   Thistleheads and Eggs... has been increased.
-  The Cipher of Damnation - Borak's Charge, has had its recommended 
   players increased to 4.
-  Ruul the Darkener has had his hit points and abilities slightly 
   adjusted to make him not as punishing.
-  The questline, Zuluhed the Whacked now requires that players kill 
   Zuluhed as part of the completion criteria.
-  The Charred Bone Fragment for the quest Digging Up the Past is 
   now on a quicker respawn timer.
-  Sunfury Disguise pieces are now flagged as multi-drop.
-  The Enraged Wraiths that spawn during the Eversong quest Powering
   Our Defenses have been scaled back in difficulty.
-  Fengus' Ferocity,Mol'dar's Moxie,Rallying Cry of the 
   Dragonslayer, Slip'kik's Savvy and Spirit of Zandalar these 
   buffs will no longer work on targets over level 63.
-  Of Thistleheads and Eggs: The Rotting Putresence debuff gained 
   during this quest is now correctly considered a stun, and effects
   which remove stuns will remove it.
-  Shizz Work: The Stanky debuff will no longer cause some procs 
   to trigger.
-  Void Crystals maximum stack size has been increased to 20 from 10.
-  Zephyrium Capacitorium: This interactable object now makes a player
   immune to all attacks and spells while it is operating on them.
-  Reduced the number of Black Dragonscales required for the warlock 
   mount quest. 

Reputation
-  Players will experience diminished gains in reputation from killing
   outdoor mobs while in raids larger than five players.
-  Scout's Arrow reputation requirement for Cenarion Expedition has 
   been moved to friendly.
-  Warden's Arrow minimum level has been changed to 68.
-  Coilfang Armaments will now drop from heroic difficulty Slave Pens.
-  New title of Justicaris now available for Alliance players exalted
   with Alterac Valley, Arathi Basin and Warsong Gulch factions.
-  New title of Conqueror is now available for Horde players exalted 
   with Alterac Valley, Arathi Basin and Warsong Gulch factions.
-  An option is available at Exalted with the Violet Eye to turn in 
   faction ring along with gold for a different exalted-level faction 
   ring.

Dungeons and Raids
-  Sounds and voice-overs have been added to all Outland dungeons and 
   raid zones.
-  All 25 man raid bosses who drop set tokens will now drop an 
   additional token.
-  Lightsworn Vindicators outside the Black Temple will no longer attack
   players who are Hostile with the Aldor.
-  Creatures will no longer Cleave targets that aren't in front of 
   them.
-  Silence spell duration has been changed from 6 to 5 seconds.
-  Polymorph spell duration has been changed from 20 seconds to 8 
   seconds.
-  Hooked Net spell duration changed from 10 to 6 seconds.
-  Electrified Net spell duration changed from 10 to 6 seconds.
-  Net spell duration changed from 10 to 6 seconds.
-  Creatures will no longer perform Sweeping Strikes.
-  Creature versions of Hamstring now deal 20% of the creature's 
   normal melee damage, and is no longer tied to the creature's normal
   swings.
-  Creature versions of Wing Clip now deal 20% of the creature's 
   normal melee damage.
-  Many humanoid Heroic creatures that are marked as uncharmable can 
   now be seduced by a Warlock's Succubus pet.
-  There is now a control panel to control the waterfall that blocks 
   the entrance to Coilfang Raid to allow people stuck on the other side
   of the waterfall to leave.
-  Mortog Steamhead standing outside of the Coilfang dungeons will 
   repair armor and weapons as well as sell various items to those 
   exalted with the Cenarion Expedition.
-  Mortog will now trade players Cenarion healing and mana salves for 
   Coilfang Armaments. These potions only work inside the Coilfang 
   dungeon and raid zones.
-  Most dungeon boss creatures will no longer slow their movement speed 
   when they are wounded.
-  Arcanist Xorith of the Scryers and Haldor the Compulsive of the Aldor
   will sell specialized flasks only usable in raid zones to players who
   are exalted with Cenarion Expedition: the Sha'tar and the Scryers or 
   the Aldor (respectively). The flasks will only be purchasable with 
   tokens obtained from creatures in Tempest Keep: The Eye, The 
   Serpentshrine, and The Black Temple. 
-  The Domination spell can no longer choose pets as valid targets.
-  Gruul is now more likely to use his Hurtful Strike and Ground Slam 
   abilities on players instead of Cave-In.
-  Hellfire Citadel:Ramparts
   Bonechewer Destroyers now has a 2 second melee round time and will no
   longer Knock Away and wipe the target's threat on Heroic.
   Bonechewer Evokers now attack slower.
   Bleeding Hollow Scryer's Fear extended the repeat cooldown so the 
   ability will happen less frequently.
   Bonechewer Raveners on Heroic, damage has been reduced and will now
   attack slower.
   The Liquid Fire damage radius graphic has been slightly altered to
   align more properly with damage; and damage has been significantly 
   reduced in Heroic difficulty.
   Omor the Unscarred's Treacherous Bane ability on Heroic will now 
   have the correct damage listed on the tooltip. The damage has also 
   been reduced in Heroic. Changed the graphic to be more noticeable.
   Added a 2 second cast time to Omor the Unscarred's Treacherous Aura
   and Treacherous Bane abilities.
   Vazruden's Revenge damage has been raised on Heroic difficulty.
   Nazan now emotes before landing.
   Nazan now has a slight delay before fireballing after breathing fire 
   while landed.
   Vazruden's Warn Horn is now present in Hellfire Ramparts. It can be 
   used to call Vazruden back if he leaves the instance between wipes.
-  Hellfire Citadel: Blood Furnace
   Shadowmoon Adepts on Heroic now double attack instead of triple 
   attack on occasion.
   Laughing Skull Legionnaire no longer uses the Sweeping Strikes 
   ability.
   Shadowmoon Technician's Silence spell is used less frequently.
   Laughing Skull Warden will stay engaged with his main target on 
   Heroic difficulty.
   The Maker's Exploding Beaker damage and knockback radii have 
   changed for consistency to both be 8 yards.
   The Maker's Exploding Beaker damage has been increased on Heroic 
   difficulty.
   Shadowmoon Technician's Throw Dynamite ability damage has been 
   increased.
   Nascent Fel Orc will Dual Wield properly now.
   Keli'dan the Breaker's Shadow Bolt Volley has had both its damage 
   and range increased
   Shadowmoon Channeler's Mark of Shadow will have a longer delay 
   before being cast at the start of the fight and now does more damage.
   Felguard Annihilators and Felguard Brutes will now do less damage.
-  Hellfire Citadel: Magtheridon's Lair
   Hellfire Warders have been significantly reduced in difficulty.
   Hellfire Channeler's Shadow Bolt Volley has been made much more easy
   to interrupt.
   The melee damage of Burning Abyssals has been significantly reduced.
-  Hellfire Citadel: Shattered Halls
   The Resist Shadow buff cast by Shadowmoon Acolytes will be 
   dispelled from players if they leave the dungeon.
   Shattered Hand Reavers will do less damage in Heroic difficulty.
   The Uppercut used by the Shattered Hand Reaver now has a smaller 
   combat range.
   Rabid Warhounds on Heroic will now do less damage.
   Shattered Hand Houndmaster's Impaling bolt damage and movement 
   impairing effects have been increased.
   Warbringer O'mrogg now applies a smaller amount of threat to the 
   target of his Beatdown ability and will now correctly disable his
   Burning Maul ability after a wipe.
   Warbringer O'mrogg and Warchief Kargath Bladefist can be seen from a
   farther distance.
   Warchief Kargath Bladefist can now travel slightly farther during 
   Blade Dance.
-  Coilfang: The Slave Pens
   Coilfang Defenders are only found in pairs while in Heroic 
   difficulty.
   Wastewalker Slaves will now be more difficult in Heroic difficulty.
   Coilfang Defenders in Heroic difficulty no longer dual wield with 
   their shields.
   Rokmar the Crackler will now only apply Grievous Wound to his 
   current target.
   The maximum range of Quagmirran's Poison Bolt Volley has been 
   increased and the spell now ignores line of sight. The damage over
   time component also is
   now fully affected by a player's nature resistance.
   Coilfang Defenders should come in no more than a 2 pulls in Slave 
   Pens on Heroic Difficulty.
   The 2 Myrmidon, 1 Sorceress, 1 Slavehandler pull has been changed 
   to a 2 Myrmidon pull.
   Naturalist Bite is now level 70 in Heroic difficulty Slave Pens.
-  Coilfang: The Underbog
   Underbat in Heroic difficulty damage has been reduced.
   Underbog Lurker in Heroic difficulty damage has been reduced.
   Wild Growth on the Underbog Lurkers has been fixed.
   Underbog Lurkers will now have a slight delay before using the 
   Coral Cut ability on a target.
   Murkblood Oracles and Murkblood Healers now have more mana.
   The Murkblood Spearmen's Throw ability does more damage in Heroic
   difficulty.
   Lykul Wasp and Lykul Stinger melee damage has been reduced.
   Underbog Lords have had their damage reduced.
   The Black Stalker's Spore Strider Summon should happen at more 
   regular intervals and be less random.
-  Coilfang: Steamvaults
   Coilfang Oracles, Coilfang Sirens and Coilfang Sorceresses now have
   more mana.
   Coilfang Engineer damage has been increased in Heroic difficulty.
   Coilfang Engineer Throw Bomb ability damage has been increased and
   will throw more frequently.
   Steam Surger damage damage has been significantly reduced.
   Tidal Surger damage has been slightly reduced in Heroic difficulty.
   The Bog Overlord's Trample has been changed to be a 50 yard radius
   effect, but now does decreased damage and will be used less frequently
   in both heroic and normal difficulty.
   Coilfang Siren's Fear now has a 1 second cast time and no longer 
   removes all threat from feared players.
-  Coilfang: Serpentshrine Cavern
   The creatures that lead up to Hydross the Unstable and creatures at 
   the six pumping stations are now on a 2 hour respawn instead of 45 
   minutes.
   Slight changes on most creatures have been made including: aggro 
   range changed to 30 yards detect, 15 yard call for help and hitpoints
   reduced. (Boss specific adds are not affected by this hitpoint 
   reduction.)
   Slightly reduced the number of creatures from the cavern entrance.
   Modified the patrol patterns of some of the murlocs in Morogrim's 
   room to make them easier to pull.
   Non-boss creatures in Serpentshrine will now no longer respawn if 
   the nearby boss has been killed, and should not respawn while in 
   combat with the boss in question.
   Fixed an issue with Hydross where you would kill him and he would 
   instead change into his alternate form with 1 health.
   The Mark of Hydross and Mark of Corruption debuffs can now affect
   the increases of the nature or frost damage taken up to 500%.
   Refreshing Mist now correctly restores health.
   Fixed an exploit related to Leotheras' Consuming Madness spell.
   Lady Vashj can no longer use the ability Persuasion.
   Toxic Spores no longer deal damage upon impact.
   Tidewalker Lurkers no longer call for help from other nearby 
   creatures.
   Greyheart Technicians are now much easier to kill, and deal less 
   damage.
   Coilfang Priestesses may now be polymorphed.
   Coilfang Priestess' Holy Fire spell now deals Holy damage, and 
   the damage dealt by the spell has been lowered.
   Morogrim Tidewalker's Earthquake no longer obeys line of sight 
   restrictions
   Creatures in the Serpentshrine now have a chance to drop Coilfang 
   Armaments.
   Hydross the Unstable's Vile Sludge spell will no longer hit pets.
   Hydross the Unstable's melee damage has been reduced.
   The spawns of Hydross have fewer hit points.
   The Coilfang Frenzy now does increased melee damage, but Scalding 
   Water damage has been decreased.
   Leotheras the Blind's Chaos Blast radius has been significantly 
   reduced, which will allow additional melee to damage Leotheras while
   he is in metamorphosis form.
   Leotheras the Blind will now also spend less time whirlwinding before
   shifting into his metamorphosis form.
   Leotheras the Blind's hit points have been reduced.
   Inner Demons are now slightly easier to kill and deal less damage.
   Serpentshrine Lurkers are now banishable and fearable, and no longer
   create mushrooms so quickly.
   Morogrim Tidewalker has been moved to a more central location in his 
   room.
   Hydross the Unstable's hit points have been slightly reduced.
   Colossus Ragers have had their health reduced significantly.
-  Auchindoun: Mana-Tombs
   Ethereal Sorcerer's in Heroic difficulty will summon Arcane Fiends
   less frequently.
   The Dark Shell of Pandemonious is now more visibly noticeable when
   cast. The duration has been lowered from 8 to 6 seconds for Heroic
   difficulty.
   Ethereal Priests, Ethereal Sorcerors, Spellbinders, and Theurgists
   now have more mana.
   Nexus-Prince Shaffar's will now summon Ethereal Beacon at a more
   regular interval.
-  Auchindoun: Auchenai Crypts
   Angered and Raging Skeletons have had their movement speed decreased
   on Heroic difficulty.
   Avatar of the Martyred's Mortal Strike damage has been reduced.
   Shirrak the Dead Watcher's Fiery Blast damage has been reduced on
   Heroic difficulty.
   Raging Souls will now correctly despawn after casting their Rage 
   spell on Heroic difficulty.
-  Auchindoun: Sethekk Halls
   Sethekk Guard's damage has been greatly reduced.
   Sethekk Ravenguard's damage has been reduced on Heroic difficulty.
   Darkweaver Syth's aggro radius has been increased, and he can now 
   see through both stealth and invisibility.
   Sethekk Oracle's Arcane Lightning damage reduced and it will be 
   cast less frequently.
   Sethekk Oracles, Sethekk Shamans, Cobalt Serpents, and Time-Lost 
   Scryers in Normal difficulty now have mor mana.
   Sethekk Prophets, Time-Lost Controllers, and Time-Lost Shadowmages
   in both difficultys now have mor mana.
   Added a 1 second cast time to the Spell Reflection ability of the
   Sethekk Initiates. Note that this is an ability and not a spell, and
   as such the ability can not be interrupted via counterspell, kick, 
   and other interrupts.
   The Arcane Destruction buff cast by Sethekk Scryers when mind
   controlled or spell-steal is used, will now be automatically 
   dispelled when a player leaves the instance.
   Sethekk Talon Lords now wield a scimitar and shield instead of a 
   polearm.
   Time-Lost Shadowmage will now be able to cast Curse of the Dark 
   Talon spell more than once.
   Talon King Ikiss on Heroic difficulty has been significantly 
   reworked. He now has a point blank area of effect slow spell, 
   increased damage on the Arcane volley , increased damage on the 
   Arcane Explosion, and reduced the frequency on his Polymorph.
   Talon King Ikiss is more obvious when he is about to cast Arcane 
   Explosion.
-  Auchindoun: Shadow Labyrinth
   The Shadow Defense spell cast by a Cabal Acolyte when mind 
   controlled or spell-steal is used, will now be automatically 
   dispelled when a player leaves the instance.
   Fel Overseer's Mortal Strike in Heroic difficulty now deals less
   damage.
   Malicious Instructor, Cabal Cultist, Cabal Assassin, Cabal Fanatic 
   and Blackheart the Inciter have all had their damage reduced in 
   Heroic difficulty.
    Cabal Cultist's damage has been reduced in Heroic difficulty 
    changed.
   The damage dealt by Murmur's Thundering Storm is now increased 
   properly by Resonance.
   Reduced the number of creatures in Shadow Labyrinth.
-  Caverns of Time: Escape from Durnholde
   The Durnholde Mage's Polymorph spell will be cast less frequently.
   Infinite Slayer's Mortal Strike damage has been reduced.
   Lieutenant Drake's melee speed has been slowed slightly and damage 
   reduced.
   Captain Skarloc's Consecration ability and melee damage has been 
   increased on Heroic difficulty.He will now take damage properly when
   he dispels Unstable Affliction.
   Infinite Defiler's Curse of Infinity on Heroic difficulty has been
   renamed to Bane of Infinity, since the effect is not removable as 
   a curse.
-  The Human Illusion spell will now interact correctly with
   Shadowform and Druid shapeshifts.
-  Caverns of Time: Opening of the Dark Portal
   Temporus' Spell Reflection ability on Heroic difficulty now has a 
   duration of 6 instead of 8 seconds.
   Temporus may no longer be disarmed.
   Chrono Lord Deja's Time Lapse may no longer be reflected.
-  Karazhan
   Prince Malchezaar's door will now close when his encounter begins.
   Prince Malchezaar's aggro range has been reduced.
   Romulo's Daring spell now increases haste and damage by 35% instead
   of 50%.
   Romulo's Poisoned Thrust will now be used less frequently.
   Backward Lunge damage has been decreased.
   The Deadly Swathe now operates based on the new creature cleave 
   rule when engaging Romulo.
   Fixed an issue where if Romulo or Julianne were killed in the final
   phase and the raid then died, the dead actor would not despawn, 
   forcing players to soft
   reset the instance to fix things.
   Blinding Passion will now only hit players.
   Immunity effects such as Ice Block will no longer remove the 
   secondary effects of being Little Red Riding Hood.
   Fixed a bug that was causing Maiden of Virtue's Repentance to hit
   her current target.
   Ethereal Theives and Spellfilchers in the upper floors have been 
   retuned slightly.
   Terestian Illhoof will no longer sacrifice his primary target.
   Terestian Illhoof will now wait longer before resurrecting his imp,
   Kil'rek.
   Terestian Illhoof's Imps have had their hitpoints reduced slightly.
   Spectral Guest melee damage per second has been slightly reduced.
   Shade of Aran's conjured elementals now despawn when he is defeated.
   Nether Protection will no longer cause Flame Wreath to detonate.
   Netherspite correctly puts the raid into combat and is no longer 
   affected by immolate and other forms of vertex coloring.
   Roar is now susceptible to Horror effects.
   The Rolling Pin of the Ghostly Baker will now only deal damage to
   one target.
   Shade of Aran's conjured elementals now have significantly less 
   health.
   Shade of Aran's Blizzard should now be more visible and its duration
   has been reduced.
   Shade of Aran's Flame Wreath should completely ignore pets, summons,
   guardians and mind-controlled NPCs.
   Shade of Aran's Door should no longer lock if he dies while drinking. 
   Shade of Aran's respawn region should properly shut down if he dies 
   while drinking.
   Shade of Aran will no longer cast Dragon's Breath.
   Netherspite's room now has a door that locks when the encounter 
   begins.
   Netherspite's Nether Burn and Nether Breath will now ignore line of 
   sight.
   Netherspite will no longer cast Nether Burn while crazed.
   The arcane creatures that spawn in the Menagerie will now respawn 
   less frequently.
   Phantom Valets and Ghostly Stewards are now larger to make them 
   stand out a bit more from the other residents of the tower.
   Skeletal Ushers can now be affected by Shackle Undead.
   Syphoners and Mana Feeders have been substantially reduced in hit 
   points, and the Syphoner's melee damage has also been reduced.
   Karazhan Tomes
      Redemption of the Fallen will now correctly summon a lvl 70 
      creature.
      Wrath of the Titans will no longer gain the full effect from +dmg
      gear
      Torment of the Worgen will now deal additional shadow damage when
      it procs (previously it did not work and did not log)
      Legacy of the Mountain King remains unchanged.
   Dark Screechers should no longer chain-cast Sonic Burst.
   Negatron's Earthquake will now play correctly.
-  Tempest Keep
      The hitpoints of all non-boss mobs has been reduced. The boss 
      specific adds should not be affected by this change.
      Creatures in Tempest Keep: The Eye, The Arcatraz, The Mechanar,
      The Botanica all have a chance at dropping health and mana potions
      that will only function inside the Tempest Keep raid and dungeon 
      instances.
      The damage dealt by Novice Astromancers and Apprentice Star 
      Scryers has been greatly reduced.
      Crystalcore Sentinels no longer Trample.
      The range of Crimson Hand Battle Mage's Frost Bolt Volley has been
      increased.
      Astromancers and Astromancer Lords no longer use the Blast Wave 
      ability, and the range of their Fireball Volley spells has been 
      increased.
      The damage over time and radius of the Star Scryer's Starfall 
      spell has been reduced.
      Arcane Resistance will prove much more effective against High 
      Astromancer Solarian's spells.
      High Astromancer Solarian now summons fewer Solarian agents, and 
      the Solarium Agents now deal less damage.
      The Al'ar encounter has been significantly reworked. Her movement
      around the room will now be more predictable, Al'ar's hit points 
      have been  reduced, and killing the Embers of Al'ar will now be 
      both much more possible and more rewarding to the raid.
      High Astromancer Solarian's hit points have been greatly reduced.
      Reduced the radius of Fragmentation Bombs in Tempest Keep to 
      better match their visual. 
-  Tempest Keep: The Botanica
      Bloodwarder Protector's Crystal Strike may now be dodged and 
      parried.
      Tempest-Forge Peacekeepers now deal Physical melee damage instead 
      of Arcane, and now longer perform the Arcane Blast ability on 
      Heroic difficulty.
      The duration of Vial of Poison has been reduced significantly.
      Greater Frayer's do more damage in Heroic difficulty.
      Nethervine Reapers and Inciters' damage has been reduced in Heroic 
      difficulty.
      Thorngrin the Tender's damage has been reduced in Heroic 
      difficulty.
      Mutate Fleshlasher's damage has bene reduced in Heroic difficulty.
      The Sunseeker Gene-Splicer's Death &amp; Decay will occur less 
      frequently and the damage has been reduced on Heroic difficulty.
      Mutate Fear-Shrieker and Mutate Horror hit points are reduced
      Warp Splinter's Arcane Volley damage has been reduced on Heroic.
      The Bloodwarder Protector's involved in the fight with the Mutate 
      Horror's and Mutate Fear-Shrieker's in The Botanica no longer 
      remain at 1 health and will properly be killed.
-  Tempest Keep: The Mechanar
      Bloodwarder Physicians now have more mana.
      Nethermancer Sepethrea will no longer break nearby players' 
      stealth when engaged.
-  Tempest Keep: The Arcatraz
      Protean Nightmare,and Arcatraz Defenders damage has been reduced 
      in Heroic difficulty.
      There are less Arcatraz Sentinel corpses in the dungeon.
      Zereketh the Unbound's Seed of Corruption will not knock players 
      back as far.
      Zereketh's melee damage has been reduced on Heroic difficulty.
      Zereketh's Shadow Nova and the Death Watcher's Death Blast
      damage has been reduced..
      The Arcatraz Sentinel's Energy Discharge damage has been reduced.
      Negaton Screamer and Negatron Warp-Master melee damage has been 
      reduced on Heroic difficulty.
      Eredar Deathbringer's Diminish Soul damage has been reduced.
      Eredar Soul-Eater's Soul Chill damage has been significantly 
      reduced.
      Skulking Witch's Chastise ability damage has been reduced on 
      Heroic difficulty.
      The Unbound Devastator will no longer be able to use the 
      Devastate and Deafening Roar abilities at the same time.  A
      small shared cooldown has been added to both abilities.
      Ethereum Wave-Casters, Ethereum Life-Binder, and Gargantuan 
      Abyssal melee damage has been reduced on Heroic difficulty.
      Unchained Doombringer's War Stomp now deals less damage.
      Harbinger Skyriss's Mind Rend will be used less frequently and 
      the damage has been reduced.
      Harbinger Skyriss's Domination duration has been changed to 6 
      seconds.
      Harbinger Skyriss's Mana Burn drain has been reduced on Heroic.
      Akkiris Lightning-Waker's Lightning Discharge damage has been 
      reduced on Heroic.
      There are fewer Protean Nightmares roaming the halls.
User Interface
-  Players will now be able to access the Looking For Group Channel
   by joining the Looking For Group/Looking for More tool.
-  Using abilities and casting spells that cannot be used while mounted
   will now auto-dismount players as needed.  This can be disabled by 
   turning off the auto-dismount option in the UI options.
-  Spells that have reagent costs will show the number of uses left in 
   the lower right corner of the action icon, just like consumable items 
   on the action bar.
-  Holding down the shift key while mousing over an equippable item 
   that you can use will now show you the tooltip for the item you 
   currently have equipped in that slot as well (much like how the auction
   house currently works).
-  The network performance meter now shows framerate and how much memory
   AddOns are using.
-  You can socket items while in flight.
-  When consuming reagents or using items on the action bar, smaller 
   stacks will be used before larger stacks.
-  Players who feign death no longer appear dead to party and raid 
   members and friendly spells will not be interrupted.
-  Sending item links with invalid enchantments will disconnect you.
-  Equippable items displayed as quest rewards will always show you the
   tooltip of the item you are currently wearing in that slot.
-  The area of interest while on a flight path is farther along the path
   instead of in front of you.
-  Your current target will now display all of the duration based spells
   that you have cast on them with cooldown rings so you will know how 
   much longer they will last. Very useful for warlock damage over time 
   spells and druid healing over time spells as well as many others.
-  Raid Windows now remember their position in the gamefield between 
   sessions.
-  A Main tank and Main assist window have been added to the raid UI 
   that can be pulled out into the gamefield. These windows 
   automatically show the main tank/main assist's target by default.
-  Profession UI now has a search field. Text that is entered into the
   search field searches against item names, reagent names and item 
   levels (if you include a level). For instance you can type Peace 
   into the search field to see all of your recipes that use Peacebloom,
   or type in 20-30 to see all of you level 20-30 recipes. This search
   field only appears once you have more than 75 skill in your 
   profession.
-  Profession UI now has a checkbox that allows you to search by only 
   items that you have the materials to make.
-  Active corpses or objects (ones with loot on them) now can be 
   selected and looted, even if they are underneath another corpse that 
   does not have loot on it.
-  While flying or swimming the 'X' key will now make you move down.
-  Hunter Pets now display their spell damage bonus on the pet pane. 
   The actual effect will nearly always be less than the bonus listed 
   as it depends on the bonus coefficient of the spell the pet is using.
-  Hunters now have a UI option Auto Attack/Auto Shot that if turned 
   off means that the hunter will not automatically switch between 
   ranged attack and melee attack difficulty when the range changes.
-  Party members will no longer see a hunter who is feigning death as
   actually dead.
-  Shamans are now a darker blue in the raid UI so they have a more 
   distinct color.
-  Items that have additional armor on them higher than standard for an
   item of that quality and level will have the armor value displayed in
   green.
-  Gems are now searchable in the Auction House under the heading of 
   Gem with the gems then broken up by color so you can search for
   all gems of a specific color.
-  When items are being put up for sale on the Auction House, if the
   item you are putting up for bid is the same item and quantity as the
   previous item you put up for bid, it will automatically fill in the 
   price and buyout for you with your previous price.
-  The 'Status Bar Text' option in the interface options UI will now 
   display numeric values for all party members health/mana bars in 
   addition to your own.
-  Raid and Battleground chat options have been added to the chat button
   that is attached to the chat log.
-  New Tips of the day have been added.
-  You can now link recipes into chat. If you have chat input open and 
   you shift-click on one of your recipes in your profession UI then it 
   will put a link to that recipe with the reagents it requires to make 
   into chat.
-  Raid assistants can now start a ready check.
-  You can now display the amount of healing you do to a target in the 
   gamefield. This option can be turned on with the Healing option in 
   the floating combat text section of interface options.
-  The Auction House now has a reset button that will reset all fields 
   you have entered to allow you to quickly try a different search.
-  Movement now interrupts the usage of the Evergrove Wand.
-  Casting beneficial spells while using the Overseer Disguise will 
   now drop the disguise.
-  The Overseer Disguise now has a 1 second casting time, and can no
   longer be activated while in combat.
-  The Triangulation Device from the Triangulation Point quests in 
   Netherstorm will no longer allow the character to see Ethereum 
   Relays.
-  The directional indicators on the minimap for the towns have been 
   added in Outlands.
-  Searches in the auction house for French, German, and Spanish now do
   character swapping for some accented characters to yield better 
   results.
-  There is now a Rotate Minimap feature. 
-  You can now enable target of target in raid windows 
-  New interface option: Open Loot Window at Mouse 
-  New interface option: Disable Lua Errors 
-  You now see the season stats instead of weekly stats for arena teams
   when you inspect another player 
-  Guild names now appear in player tooltips 
-  Stackable items retrieved from mail will automatically stack in your
   inventory 
-  You are now able to right click a player name to report them to GMs.
-  User Interface Scripting
   Macro Features:
      New conditional [flyable] which is true if you're in a location 
      where you could use a flying mount
      You can use %f in chat text to refer to your focus, the same way
      %t or %n refers to your target.
      Added macro option support for /dismount
      Macros containing conditionals will automatically update their 
      visual feedback as appropriate during play.
      #show and #showtooltip can be given conditionals and will update
      dynamically
      #show and #showtooltip can be given a slot number, to display the
      appropriate feedback for that slot
      Added bag and slot number support to: /castsequence, /cast, 
      /castrandom, /use, /userandom, /equip, /equipslot
      New slash command /cancelform
      The /equip command can take item identifiers specified as item:
      <id>: e.g. /equip [modifier:alt] item:25640
      You can provide several conditional clauses for a single action, 
      which will be performed if any of the clauses evaluates to true. 
      e.g. /cast [target=target,help,nodead] [target=targettarget,help,
      nodead] [target=player] Flash of Light
   For additional notes on Lua and XML changes please visit the 
   UI & Macros Forum-
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?sid=1&forumId=11114

World Environment
-  Two new graveyards have been added to Blade's Edge Mountains.
-  Wandering NPCs will turn to face you more quickly when you interact 
   with them.
-  The Fel Cannons in Outland should no longer be falling thru the 
   terrain.
-  Obsidian Elementals are now correctly immune to bleed effects.
-  The casting of the Sun Shield spell used by Firewing Warlocks will
   now show up in the combat log.
-  Void Baron Galaxis will no longer despawn 10 seconds after death.
-  Uvuros now moves considerably faster than before.
-  Arch Mage Xintor now has pickpocket loot.
-  Auchenai Crypts: Creatures here will no longer occasionally drop 
   aquatic-oriented items, Fish Scales, etc.
-  Boulderfist Warrior: Mages can now Blink when stunned by this 
   creature. In addition, its Shoulder Charge ability now has a 
   minimum range.
-  Dark Worg: This creature no longer drops cash.
-  Dragonhawks: Some of these creatures were unskinnable. Almost all 
   are now skinnable. Exception: Feral Dragonhawk Hatchlings.
-  Dust Howler: This creature's Howling Dust ability is now correctly
   removed by Cloak of Shadows.
-  Earthcaller Ryga, Eclipsion Cavalier,Eclipsion Soldier,Vyral the 
   Vile, Eclipsion Spellbinder,Gan'arg Sapper,Grillok Darkeye, Hand of
   Kargath, Mag'har Grunt, Unliving Caretaker, Unyielding Sorcerer,Worg
   Master Kruush, Z'kral, Blacktalon the Savage and Debilitated Mag'har 
   Grunt all now have pickpocket loot.
-  Fel Cannons: These creatures now drop loot.
-  Krellack can now be skinned.
-  Lady Shav'rar: Druid shapeshifting now breaks the creature's freeze 
   affect.
-  Mana Wraith: This creature is no longer immune to the hunter pet 
   ability Warp.
-  Mennu: The boss's healing ward totem will no longer trigger kill procs
   when killed.
-  Mosh'ogg Witch Doctor: The Ward of Laze totems summoned by this 
   creature can no longer be destroyed by area attacks.
-  Motes of Mana: Several water-themed creatures were dropping Motes 
   of Mana; they now drop Motes of Water.
-  Murkblood Scavengers: The cash dropped by these creatures has been 
   drastically reduced.
-  Rockflayers: All creatures of this type now have pickpocket loot.
-  Scarshield Spellbinder: The fire resist buff from this creature will
   no longer work on targets over level 63.
-  Skettis Arakkoa: These creatures will now drop Arakkoa Feathers as 
   intended.
-  Unbound Devastator: The disarm from this creature now fails against
   disarm-immune targets.
-  Throne Hound: This creature now has elite-quality loot.
-  Throne of Kil'jaedan: Elite creatures in this area now drop 
   elite-quality loot.
-  Veil Lithic Arakoa: These creatures will now drop Arakkoa Feathers 
   as intended.
-  Area 52: Added a guard near an exploitable dead zone in town.
-  A new flightmaster has been added to Forest Song in Ashenvale.
-  New flight points have been added:
   --Felwood, Emerald Sanctuary (Both)
   --Ashenvale, Forest Song (Alliance)
-  New flight paths added:
   --Stormwind &lt;-&gt; Thorium Point
   --Grom'gol Base Camp &lt;-&gt; Flame Crest
   --Ratchet &lt;-&gt; Gadgetzan, Astranaar, Brackenwall Village
   --Brackenwall Village &lt;-&gt; Ratchet, Camp Taurajo, Freewind Post
   --Thunderbluff &lt;-&gt; Zoram'gar Outpost
   --Evergrove &lt;-&gt; Toshley's Station
   --Honor Hold &lt;-&gt; Shattrath
-  Many flight paths have been adjusted to be shorter, faster flights.
-  Several flight paths which clipped thru objects have been adjusted.
-  An Inn and mailbox have been added to Evergrove in Blades Edge 
   Mountains.
-  A Forge and Anvil has been added to Cosmowrench in Netherstorm.
-  Improved combat movement for flying creatures.
-  Apothecary Azethen, Ryathen the Somber, Arcanist Calesthris Dawnstar,
   Magister  Duskwither, Tethik, Darnassian Protector, and Groggeroc no
   longer get loot sparkles when killed.
-  Antilus the Soarer: This creature can now be skinned.

Mac
-  Added 'maxfps' game variable, when set to a non-zero value it will 
   limit the game's frame rate when the game is the frontmost 
   application or full screen.  Also added 'maxfpsbk' game variable, 
   when set to a non-zero value it will limit the game's frame rate when
   the game is not in the foreground. Each of these variables can be 
   left set to '0' which disables them, or an integer value representing
   the desired frame rate limit.
   
Bug Fixes
-  Nazan in the Hellfire Ramparts is no longer affected by Disarm.
-  Tainted Cores in Serpentshrine Cavern are now unique.
-  Fixed several combat log issues where certain types of damage were
   not being reported.
-  Many quests were incorrectly shareable even when items were necessary
   for accepting the quest.  These quests are no longer shareable.
-  Fixed an error where the G15 Keyboard LCD screen will sometimes not 
   display the correct battleground name when Alt+Tabbing back into 
   World of Warcraft.
-  Fixed some sound errors in which some sounds were either repeating 
   or were not playing properly.
-  Fixed many locations in which players had been getting stuck.
-  Fixed an issue in which gnomes were unable to surface properly after
   being underwater.
-  Fixed various graphical errors.
-  Coral Sharks will no longer attack players standing at the edge of 
   the docks high above the water on Theramore Isle.
-  The bleed effect from the druid ability Pounce will now properly 
   apply to targets who are immune to stun.
-  The Exodar Peacekeeper guards will now give the correct directions to
   the auction house.
-  Fixed an error where tauren males and gnomes were unable to gain the 
   benefit of drinking water when in areas of shallow and deep water.
-  Fixed an error where some characters appeared to be drinking while 
   standing up.
-  The target Spell Cooldown Timer has been improved.
-  Using Tome of Conjure Water IX on another Mage will no longer teach
   that Mage Conjure Water (Rank 9).
-  The quest item Felsworn Gas Mask is no longer sellable.
-  Thorngrin the Tenderwill no longer Sacrifice totems and pets.
-  The game will now end properly in the Eye of the Storm Battleground
   if you cap the flag and it puts you over 2000 resources.
-  Fixed an issue where creatures who were killed would disappear before
   ever becoming a lootable corpse.
-  Stoneclaw Totem,rank 3, will now pulse correctly.
-  General Vorpal in the Shadow Labyrinth will no longer evade when 
   standing on a particular spot.
-  The Dragon, Vhel'Khur, will no longer evade when pulled in Shadowmoon
   Valley. 
-  Players will no longer crash out of the game when resizing the game
   window with the Auction House menu open.
-  Shattrath City Peacekeepers will now attack players who attack others
   from a distance.
-  The Burnoose of Shifting Ages can now be disenchanted.
-  Adjusted many quest rewards for better consistency.
-  Zoning into an expansion dungeon and changing the difficulty at the 
   same time will no longer cause players to disconnect.
-  If a player is casting a spell when the debuff Shadow of Death 
   fades from them, they will no longer die when the spell completes.
-  Fixed many interface graphical errors.
-  Force-quitting or crashing out of the WoW client while taxiing across
   zone boundries can no longer cause the player to be locked out of 
   zone-specific chat channels.
-  Player pets can no longer attack PvP players while not being flagged 
   for PvP.
-  In battlegrounds, pets with a damage over time spell will no longer 
   continue to attack the caster after Resurrection.
-  There is now a message telling players that the replacement for their
   final Violet Signets will cost 100 gold.
-  Fixed an issue where quest items were remaining in a player's 
   inventory even after abandoning the quest.
-  Fixed several raid UI errors.
-  In the Black Morass, gnomes are now able to run through the water
   like other races.
-  Male gnome /cheer animation is no longer incomplete.
-  Numerous performance optimizations have been made across all 
   platforms.
-  Performance improvements for systems without vertex shaders enabled.
-  Proper recognition of SSE support for Pentium III has been 
   implemented resulting in improved performance on this platform.
-  The Warrior ability Spell Reflection can no longer be used if a 
   shield is unequipped.
-  Players will no longer be able to use Charge types of abilities 
   to port the user up to flying-mounted characters.
-  Players can no longer be feared when using the Zephyrium 
   Capacitorium during the Test Flight quests out of Toshley's Station.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.0.12 (2007-04-06)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    
Mac
-  Improved memory usage and stability under Mac OS X 10.4.9 using 
   multi-threaded OpenGL
   
Bug Fixes

-  Attempting to turn in a guild charter with a signature from a 
   player that formed his own guild will no longer result in an 
   inappropriate error message.
-  Using the customer support "Auto-Unstuck" will now trigger the 
   one-hour cooldown on the player's hearthstone.
-  Arenas
   Players will no longer be able to see their opponents in the Combat
   Log of an Arena match-up before the game starts.
-  Battlegrounds
   Eye of the Storm: Players should no longer be able to exit the 
   bubble before the match starts.
-  Mechanar
   The gate at the top of the elevator in Mechanar will now remain open
   while attempting the gauntlet and after Pathaleon the Calculator is 
   killed.
-  Caverns of Time: Old Hillsbrad
   The Escape from Durnholde event will no longer break during the 
   church part of the encounter.
-  Various localization fixes have been applied.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.0.10 (2007-03-06)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   
General
-  Some logic was fixed in the "Natural Remedies" quest so that 
   Pathaleon the Calculator's Image will always spawn during the ritual.
-  Goliathon and his shardlings can no longer be pulled to nearby areas
   that have guards.
-  More fixes implemented in the "It's a Fel Reaver, But With Heart" 
   quest to keep the Scrapped Fel Reaver from breaking.
-  The Orb of the Blackwhelp and Hallowed Wands can no longer be used 
   in combat, and the transformation will be canceled if the player 
   receives damage.
-  The Scrap Reaver in Netherstorm repairs reduced from 10,000 health 
   to 8,500 health over 10 seconds.
-  Battle of the Crimson Watch
   Illidari Mind Breaker has been weakened.
   Illidari Highlords can now be CC'ed but not Charmed.
   
PvP
-  Arenas
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Slicer" has been increased to 2625 arena
   points.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Quickblade" has been decreased to 1125 
   arena points and changed to offhand only.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Cleaver" has been increased to 2625 
   arena points.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Hacker" has been decreased to 1125 arena
   points and changed to offhand only.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Pummeler" has been increased to 2625 
   arena points.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Bonecracker" has been decreased to 1125
   arena points and changed to offhand only.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Right Ripper" has been increased to 2625
   arena points.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Left Ripper" has been decreased to 1125
   arena points.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Shanker" has been increased to 2625 
   arena points.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Shiv" has been decreased to 1125 arena 
   points and changed to offhand only.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's War Edge" has been decreased to 1000 
   arena points and the speed changed to 1.9.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Spellblade" has been increased to 3150
   arena points.
   The cost of the "Touch of Defeat" has been decreased to 1000 arena 
   points.
   The cost of the "Gladiator's Endgame" has been decreased to 1125 
   arena points.
   The cost of the "Idol of Tenacity" has been decreased to 1000 arena
   points.
   The cost of the "Libram of Justice" has been decreased to 1000 arena
   points.
   The cost of the "totem of the Third Wind" has been decreased to 1000
   arena points.
   
Druids
-  When the duration of "Cyclone" ends, area buffs such as "Leader of 
   the Pack", "Tree of Life", and "Moonkin" will now be correctly 
   resumed.
-  "Bear Form" now grants 25% increased stamina instead of 25% increased
   health.
-  "Dire Bear Form" now grants 25% increased stamina instead of 25% 
   increased health. In addition, the armor bonus has been reduced from 
   450% to 400%.
-  The multiplier on base weapon damage for "Mangle (Bear)" ability has
   been changed from 130% to 100%. In addition, the bonus damage has 
   been reduced by the same ratio.
-  "Savage Fury" no longer affects "Mangle (Bear)".
-  "Savage Fury" no longer applies to "Maul" or "Swipe".
-  The critical damage bonus on "Predatory Instincts" reduced from 
   3/6/9/12/15% to 2/4/6/8/10%. 
-  "Improved Leader of the Pack" can no longer get critical heals.
-  The armor bonus from "Moonkin Form" has been increased from 360% to 
   400% (to match Dire Bear Form).
-  The rage normalization equation has been adjusted to grant more rage.

Paladins
-  The slowing affect from "Avenger's Shield" is now considered a snare,
   so snare removal and immunity affects will now work on it. 
   
Priests
-  The base healing percent from "Vampiric Embrace" has been reduced 
   to 15% from 20%. In addition, this ability can no longer get critical
   heals.
-  "Silent Resolve" no longer reduces threat generated by Shadow spells.
-  Mass Dispel will now target immunity effects first.
-  Prayer of Mending now has a 10 second cooldown. 
-  Circle of Healing mana cost reduced by 25%.
-  The effectiveness of "Fade:Rank 7" has been increased by 
   approximately 25%.
-  The damage absorption of "Power Word: Shield" added by the caster's 
   bonus healing has been increased to 20%.

Shaman
-  The clearcasting effect from "Elemental Focus" now triggers on all 
   spell critical strikes, rather than a chance on any spell hit.
-  The shaman will no longer generate additional threat when "Unleashed
   Rage" triggers.
-  The free Lightning spell cast from "Lightning Overload" will now 
   cause reduced threat.
-  "Stoneclaw Totem" now has a 50% chance to stun attackers for 3 sec.
   when struck.
-  The bonus of the "Wrath of Air" totem now applies to healing spells
   as well.
   
Warlock
-  "Demonic Tactics" now grants increased critical strike chance to you
   and your demon pet, instead of increased damage.
   
Warriors
-  The rage normalization equation has been adjusted to grant more rage.
   The typical warrior should see an increase of 15% to 20% in their 
   rage generation.
-  All warriors had their critical strike chance adjusted upward 
   slightly (about 1%).
-  "Thunder Clap" is now useable in Defensive Stance. In addition, the
   tooltip has been adjusted to indicate it causes additional threat.
-  The cooldown on "Victory Rush" has been removed, and it can now be 
   used up to 20 seconds after killing an enemy.
-  "Unbridled Wrath" has been modified so that rather than a fixed 
   chance to grant rage, it has an increased chance when using slower
   weapons.
-  Increased the health bonus from "Commanding Shout" by 50%.
-  "Improved Battle Shout" talent renamed to "Commanding Presence" and
   now increases the health bonus from "Commanding Shout" in addition
   to increasing the melee attack power from "Battle Shout".
   
Items
-  The threat generated from the spell effect on "Thunderfury" has been
   substantially reduced.
-  The bonus to "Swipe" from the "Idol of Brutality" has been reduced 
   from 50 to 10.
-  "Alchemist's Stone" will no longer increase healing and mana gained 
   from items which are not potions.
-  The cost of sockets in high end items has been adjusted slightly, 
   the result is that most high end epic items should see an increase 
   in stats.
-  Corrected many items that had incorrect stat values assigned to them.
-  The rewards from the "Fel Embers" quest are now superior items as 
   intended.
-  Reduced the damage dealt by "The Lightning Capacitor".
-  Corrected the level requirement of the "Fist of Reckoning".
-  "Necklace of Trophies" has been corrected to increase Hit Rating 
   instead of Hit Avoidance.
-  "Burnoose of Shifting Ages" can now be disenchanted.
-  "Nethershrike" now has the proper sell value and can be disenchanted.
-  Corrected the level of "Marksman's Bow" to be in line with other 
   epic reputation rewards.
-  The "Marksman's Bow" now has the proper damage range.
-  "Hourglass of the Unraveller" will now properly increase ranged 
   attack power.
-  Corrected the socket bonus for "Soul-Collar of the Incarnate".
-  Corrected a typo in the set bonus of "Warbringer Armor".
-  "Ruby Slippers" now properly have a cast time.
-  Corrected the min use level of "Terokk's Shadowstaff".
-  "Warpscale Leggings" have had their Crit Rating updated to the 
   intended Dodge Rating.
-  "Warmaul Slayer's Band" no longer has critical strike rating. 
   However, its agility and attack power have been increased.
-  "Ancient Draenei War Talisman" now shares a cooldown with all 
   trinkets that temporarily increase damage done.
-  "Ancient Draenei Arcane Relic" shares a cooldown with all trinkets
   that temporarily increase damage done.
-  "Aldor Guardian Rifle" now has a range correctly set on it.
-  The effect on "Void Star Talisman" was incorrectly set to On Use. 
   It is now set to On Equip.
-  The critical strike rating on "Cilice of Suffering" has been changed
   to spell critical strike rating.
-  The cooldown for "Glimmering Mithril Insignia" has been increased 
   from 10 minutes to 20 minutes.
-  The slowing affect from the "Mug 'O Hurt" is now considered a snare,
   so snare removal and immunity affects will now work on it. 
-  The "Mark of Conquest" trinket now correctly triggers the mana regen
   effect.
   
Raids and Dungeons
-  Creatures in Tempest Keep:Botanica, Tempest Keep: Mechanar, and 
   Tempest Keep:Arcatraz no longer respawn as rapidly.
-  Shadow Labyrinth
   Reduced the chance of a Cabal Assassin ambush.
-  Hellfire Citadel:Shattered Halls
   Removed a problematic chest.
   The "Resist Shadow" spell cast by Shadowmoon Acolyte's in Shattered
   Halls will now be removed if a player leaves the zone.
   Shattered Hand Gladiators will no longer break players' stealth when
   engaged in combat.
-  Serpentshrine Cavern
   Boss creatures have received additional tuning and polish.
-  Tempest Keep:Arcatraz
   Warder and Defender Corpses are now immune to spell effects that 
   could cause the Protean Spawn to not spawn.
   Protean Spawn now deal less damage.
   The damage dealt by Wrath-Scryer Soccothrates' "Immolation" and 
   "Knock Away" abilities has been reduced.
-  Auchindoun Shadow
   Cabal Zealots are now more threatening while under the effect of 
   Shape of the Beast.
-  Tempest Keep: Botanica
   Sunseeker Gene-Splicers' Death and Decay now deals significantly 
   less damage and casts less frequently.
   Mutate Fleshlashers now deal less melee damage.
   Mutate Horrors and Fear-Shriekers now have less health.
   Sunseeker Researchers will now cast shocks less frequently.
   Sunseeker Chemists are now Paladin type instead of Warrior type.
   The Blue Seedlings in the High Botanist Freywinn encounter now slow
   players instead of immobilizing them.
   High Botanist Freywinn will now plant seedlings at a slightly 
   reduced rate.
-  Tempest Keep Mechanar
   Gatewatcher Iron-Hand now wields a Jackhammer.
   Gatewatcher Iron-Hand is now more vocal when perfoming his Jackhammer
   attack.
   Mechanar Drillers, Wreckers, and Crushers in Tempest Keep: The 
   Mechanar may no longer be enslaved when in Heroic mode.
-  Caverns of Time
   Captain Skarloc in Caverns of Time: Escape from Durnholde is no
   longer susceptible to disarm, and does not slow down when wounded.
   A defeat in the Caverns of Time: Opening of the Dark Portal 
   instance will no longer despawn unlooted bosses with loot.
   Occasionally after players are defeated in the Caverns of Time: 
   Opening of the Dark Portal encounter on Heroic difficulty, the 
   placeholder versions of the bosses that appear in future attempts 
   that day would not spawn. The proper placeholders will now spawn 
   instead of Rift Lords and Rift Keepers.
   Boss creatures in Caverns of Time: Opening of the Dark Portal will 
   now dispel all nearby Time Keepers instead of one at a time.
-  Karazhan
   Maiden of Virtue's "Holy Wrath" has been slightly retuned to try and
   allow additional melee attackers to be used against her.
   Maiden of Virtue's "Holy Fire" has been adjusted to prevent a 
   possible range exploit.
   Maiden of Virtue will no longer "Holy Fire" players under the effect
   of "Repentance".
   Midnight is no longer susceptible to Bleed effects, since he's a 
   skeletal horse.
   Nightbane's Restless Skeletons are now immune to non-holy magical 
   damage.
   Restless Skeletons no longer have immolation.
   Nightbane's Bone Shard Spray can no longer be interrupted by using 
   an immunity effect.
   Some minor issues with the Library Tomes have been corrected.
   The use of Divine Shield, Ice Block, or Cloak of Shadows will no 
   longer prematurely detonate the Shade of Aran's Flame Wreath.
   Restless Skeletons will now summon a player if they are unable to 
   path to that player, and deal more melee damage.
   The cooldown of Bellowing Roar has been adjusted to be a more 
   consistent value.
   
Bug Fixes
-  Fixed the credits to display properly.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.0.8 (2007-02-15)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bug Fixes
-  Fixed several display issues with the arena battle final scoreboard.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.0.7 (2007-02-13)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
-  The amount of haste granted by a point of haste rating has been 
   increased by about 50%.
-  20 slot bags are now bind on equip.
-  Any effect which benefits the victim of a critical strike will now
   trigger even if resilience converted the attack from a critical 
   strike to a normal strike; this applies to melee, ranged, and spell.
   The affected talents, abilities, and items are: "Eye for an Eye", 
   "Blessed Resilience", "Enrage", "Martyrdom", "Blood Craze", "Eye of
   the Storm", and "Bonespike Shoulder".
-  The Crust Bruster has had a loot icon and sound change.
-  Players can no longer send gift wrapped packages via COD.
-  When sharing a quest, the order logic has changed to check whether 
   or not the player has completed or is ineligible for the quest before
   checking whether their quest log is full. 
   
PvP
-  Battlegrounds
-  If Primalist Thurloga is attacked and pulled off her pathing on the 
   way to summon Lokholar the Ice Lord, she will now properly path back
   to the summoning ring to complete the event.
-  PVP flags and graveyard nodes can no longer be captured through 
   collision.
   
Raids and Dungeons
-  Players are no longer able to accept the quest "The Opening of the
   Dark Portal" while the Black Morass encounter is engaged.
-  In the Black Morass, Chrono Lord Deja will now properly spawn during
   a Heroic Mode attempt.
-  After completing the Black Morass encounter, all the additional mobs
   in the zone will no longer all aggro.
-  Durnholde Lookouts will now properly despawn after all 5 of the 
   Baracks in Caverns of Time: Escape from Durnholde are burned down.
-  The items required to complete the Karazhan key quest can now only 
   be looted by the first group in the instance to reach them.
-  Berthold the Doorman will now have a gossip option to teleport 
   players to the Shade of Aran's room. This gossip option only becomes
   available when players have defeated the Shade of Aran.
-  The aggro range for players when under the effect of "Incite Chaos" 
   while fighting Blackheart the Inciter in the Shadow Labrynth has 
   been adjusted.
-  Many creatures within Coilfang Resevoir have been slightly retuned.
-  Many creatures within the Mana Tombs have been slightly retuned.
   
Mac
-  Stability improvements in Multi-Threaded OpenGL support on future 
   OS X releases.
   
Bug Fixes
-  The talent "Combat Potency" no longer causes rogues to have a chance
   to gain energy when other players hit them with off-hand attacks.
-  Players with multiple chat windows will no longer have fixed 
   channels (ie. general, trade)  added back to the main chat window 
   every time they log on.
-  Attempting to prospect less than 5 pieces of ore will no longer 
   cause a game crash. (Spanish Only)
-  The Fel Reaver for "It's A Fel Reaver, But With Heart" quest will 
   now respawn properly if you wipe on the quest.
-  Fixed the local defense channel so that it will properly change based
   on the player's zone.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.0.6 (2007-01-23)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hunters
-  "Silencing Shot" now does only 50% of weapon damage instead of 75%.
-  The base damage for "Arcane Shot" has been reduced by about 9% and 
   the bonus damage from ranged attack power reduced from 20% to 15%.
-  The bonus damage for "Barrage" is now 4/8/12% for ranks 1/2/3.
-  The bonus damage for "Improved Barrage" is now 4/8/12% for ranks 
   1/2/3.
   
Mages
-  Each rank of "Improved Fireball" now reduces your spell damage 
   coefficient by 2%.
-  Each rank of "Improved Frostbolt" now reduces your spell damage 
   coefficient by 2%.
-  "Counterspell" no longer triggers the global cooldown.
-  "Mana Shield" now absorbs magical damage as well as physical damage.

Priests
-  The bonus coefficient for "Shadow Word: Pain" has been reduced by 
   about 9%.  This should result in about 5% less damage done by 
   "Shadow Word: Pain" for the typical priest.
   
Bug Fixes
-  The "Frozen Shadoweave Boots" will now properly increase shadow 
   damage.
-  Players will no longer lose control of their character if they try
   to talk to an NPC while mobs are aggro on them.
-  The /equip command will now work on pieces of gear that are not in 
   your primary bag.
-  Fixed an issue that was causing some players to disconnect in 
   Hellfire Citadel:Blood Furnace.
-  The "Corruptor" 4 piece set bonus will now be properly applied.
-  The Legion Fel Cannons at Forge Camp Anger in Blades Edge will now 
   properly spawn above ground.
-  The Arena queue tooltip will now show the arena that the player is 
   queued for.
-  Fixed an error that was causing players to disconnect if they tried 
   to socket a gem that had been gift wrapped.
-  Fixed an error that was causing players to disconnect forming a 
   party with other members in the same area.
-  Pet icons will now properly update in the Stables window.
-  Improved the robustness of the pet action bar display. It is now 
   less likely to be accidentally blocked by addons.
-  Players will no longer hear the gong sound repeated after initially joining 
   a queue for the battlegrounds.
-  Having a group invite declined while queued via "Looking for More" 
   will no longer remove you from the queue.
-  Nethershards will no longer cost honor to purchase but will cost 
   gold instead.
-  Players will no longer be given access to both quest lines following
   the Declaration of Allegiance to the Scryers or Aldor in Shattrath 
   City.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.0.5 (2007-01-15)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Increased the maximum number of realms that can be listed in the Realm List.
-  Updated the Terms of Use.
-  Created an option to disable UI Acceleration for users of select video cards 
   experiencing graphical corruption of the User Interface. To use this option,
   enter the following line to the Config.wtf file, located in the WTF 
   subfolder of the game:
   
     Set UIFaster “x”
	 
     Where x equals:
     0 – This turns off all UI acceleration
     1 – For Internal Use Only - DO NOT USE!
     2 – Enables partial UI acceleration only.  
     3 – Enables all UI acceleration.

     Example:
	 Set UIFaster “2”

     Note:  For users experiencing graphical corruption of the User Interface, 
	 it is recommended to try option 2 in order to correct the problem.  If 
	 this does not solve the issue, then use option 0 to disable all UI 
	 Acceleration.  

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.0.4 (2007-01-12)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Fixed a bug where flags in Arathi Basin could be captured at extremely long 
   distances.
-  Fixed a bug where players who had set dungeons to Heroic difficulty level 
   previous to patch 2.0.3 could no longer enter instances.
-  Fixed a bug that was causing multiple LUA errors in the German and French 
   battlegrounds.
-  Fixed a bug that was causing the promotion of raid members to yield 
   incorrect results.
-  Fixed a bug where NPC faction changes were not properly affecting quest-
   giver exclamation marks.
-  Fixed a bug where changing party options would briefly cause erroneous 
   information to be displayed in the party options menu.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.0.3 (2007-01-09)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Burning Crusade
-  Several years have passed since the Burning Legion's defeat at the
   Battle of Mount Hyjal - and the races of Azeroth have continued to
   rebuild their once shattered kingdoms. With renewed strength, the
   heroes of the Horde and Alliance have begun to explore the broken
   lands beyond the Dark Portal. What dangers or rewards await mortal
   champions in Draenor? And what will the Alliance and Horde do when
   they discover that the demons they thought vanquished have returned
   to renew their terrible Burning Crusade?

General
-  A stirring of events has begun throughout Azeroth and rumor points
   to the Dark Portal as its source.
-  Mazk Snipeshot in Booty Bay now sells bullets.
-  The Auction House now sorts by buyout price first, then by current
   price. This should filter all of the items with outlandish buyout
   prices to the bottom of the list.
-  Players will now need to be level 58 to pass through the Dark Portal.
   (The Burning Crusade Expansion must be installed.)
-  Collector Edition pets are now blue items and a confirmation
   dialogue will appear to prevent accidental deletion.
-  Pets will no longer attack targets that are under the influence of
   crowd control (sheep, banish, etc.).
-  The title "Scarab Lord" can now be chosen in game for select players.

PvP
-  Players can use the /teamquit or /teamdisband command in order to
   leave an Arena team.
-  A new bracket has been added to Alterac Valley for level 61-70.
-  Added a sorting function so that the battleground and scoreboard can
   be sorted by any of the categories.
-  Healthstones and summoned warlock pets will no longer cost a
   soulshard to summon in the Arena preparation area. All summoned
   items and pets will be dismissed on leaving the arena.
-  The last pet a player had summoned will be resummoned outside the
   Arena upon leaving.

Druids
-  Due to various talent changes, all Druids will have all their talent
   points refunded.
-  "Feline Swiftness" has been renamed "Feral Swiftness". The dodge %
   increase now also applies to Bear and Dire Bear Forms.
-  "Improved Moonfire" has been reduced to 2 ranks, for a 5/10% bonus.
-  "Insect Swarm" has had its damage on all ranks increased. The mana
   cost of ranks 1 and 3 has been increased. The mana cost of ranks 4,5
   and 6 has been decreased.
-  "Nurturing Instinct" now grants its benefit at all times, but the
   bonus has been reduced to 25/50% of Strength.
-  "Improved Starfire" has been renamed to "Celestial Focus" and now
   also increases the chance to resist casting pushback when casting
   "Wrath" by 25/50/70%.
-  "Blood Frenzy" benefits have merged with "Primal Fury".
-  "Improved Leader of the Pack" has been reduced to 2 ranks for 2/4%
   total health healed.
-  "Pounce" no longer requires the druid to be behind the target.
-  "Barkskin" is now usable while stunned.
-  Druids now need substantially less agility per dodge.
-  "Dire Bear Form" armor bonus increased to 450% and health bonus
   changed to a 25% percent health increase instead of a flat increase.
-  The Health bonus of "Bear Form" has changed to a 25% percent health
   increase instead of a flat increase.
-  "Swipe" has had its threat bonus multiplier removed.
-  "Maul" has had its threat bonus multiplier changed to a flat value
   similar in threat per time to "Heroic Strike".
-  "Regrowth" has had its mana cost reduced by approximately 18%.
-  "Tree of Life" healing bonus now increases the healing received
   by your party members instead of the healing dealt by your party members.
-  The "Tranquility" base amount healed per second has increased by
   approximately 273%. The radius of effect has increased from 20 yards
   to 30 yards. Mana cost has increased by 40%. The Cooldown has
   increased from 5 minutes to 10 minutes. The Duration has decreased
   from 10 seconds to 8 seconds.
-  "Mangle" will not stack multiple copies from multiple forms or
   druids anymore. This was never intended behavior. The percentage
   modification on bleeds has increased from 25% to 30% and "Mangle"
   now increases the damage from "Shred" as well. In addition, "Mangle"
   will now benefit from the damage boost from "Tiger's Fury".
-  "Enrage" will now show up in the combat log and in floating combat text.
-  "Lifebloom" will now correctly consume clearcasting.
-  "Predatory Instincts" has had its tooltip adjusted to indicate it
   only works in feral forms, and that it increases damage by a percent,
   not damage bonus by a percent.
-  If a spell is resisted, it will no longer break stealth.
-  "Tree of Life's" bonus healing aura will now reactivate correctly
   when "Banish" wears off.
-  Shapeshifted druids will now be able to speak to npcs while
   shapeshifted. 
   
Hunters
-  "Multi-Shot" has had its mana cost adjusted back to a value closer to its pre-2.0.1 version.
-  If your pet has been recently revived by using "Call Pet", it will
   no longer reset back to full health.
-  If a Hunter "Wyvern Stings" an enemy already asleep from
   "Wyvern Sting", the "Wyvern Sting" sleep will now be reapplied
   correctly.

Mages
-  "Frost Nova" (Water Elemental Spell) has been renamed to "Freeze".
-  "Ice Lance" is now correctly affected by "Elemental Precision".
-  "Ice Armor"is now correctly affected by "Elemental Precision".
-  "Frost Armor" is now correctly affected by "Elemental Precision".
-  Mages will no longer see line of sight errors if the target moves
   behind an obstacle after the spell "Arcane Missiles" has begun
   casting.
-  "Blazing Speed" no longer PROCs while the caster is mounted.

Paladins
-  "Blessing of Might" now also increases ranged attack power.
-  "Improved Righteous Fury" now also reduces all damage taken while
   active by 2/4/6%.
-  "Improved Divine Shield" (Protection Talent) has been renamed
   "Sacred Duty" and now also increases total Stamina by 3/6%.
-  "Improved Resistance Auras" has been renamed "Spell Warding",
   reduces all spell damage taken by the Paladin and is no longer
   tied to Resistance Auras.
-  We have fixed a bug where the damage bonus from "Holy Guidance" was
   being added to physical attacks.
-  "Divine Illumination's" duration has been increased to 15 sec, from
   10 sec.
-  There will no longer be a slight delay on receiving the buff from
   "Light's Grace" when it occurs.

Priests
-  "Mass Dispel" will no longer cause stealthed Rogues and prowling
    Druids to lose stealth.
-  "Surge of Light" (Holy Talent) can no longer be triggered by using items.

Rogues

-  Due to various talent changes, Rogues will have all talent
   points refunded.
-  "Evasion" (Rank 2) now reduces the chance that ranged attacks will
   hit the Rogue by 25%, reduced from 50%. It is now available at level
   50.
-  The "Cloak of Shadows" cooldown has been reduced to 1 min, from
   2 min. Now a trainable ability at level 66.
-  "Shadowstep" (New Subtlety Talent) attempts to step through the
   shadows and reappear behind your enemy. Your next "Ambush",
   "Backstab" or "Garrote" ability is increased by 20% and lasts 10
   sec. This is only usable while stealthed.
-  "Premeditation" (Subtlety Talent) has had its range increased to 30 yards.
-  "Preparation" now only resets the cooldown of the "Evasion",
   "Sprint", "Vanish", "Cold Blood", "Adrenaline Rush" and
   "Premeditation" abilities.
-  "Wound Poison" now causes damage and reduces all healing by 10%,
   stacks up to 5 times.
-  The Cooldown for "Blind" has been reduced to 3 min, from 5 min.
-  There is no longer a random chance the effect of "Sap" will end
   (i.e. removed the heartbeat resist check). The effect will still
   end early when the target is damaged.
-  Each rank of "Weapon Expertise"now provides 5 weapon skill.
-  "Surprise Attacks" now increases the damage from "Sinister Strike",
   "Backstab", "Shiv" and "Gouge" by 10% instead of 8%.
-  Resisted spells will no longer break "Stealth"/"Vanish". 
-  Combo points added to a target should not be reset until you add a
   combo point to a different target.

Shaman
-  "Earth Shock" no longer causes increased threat.
-  "Frost Shock" now causes increased threat.
-  The training cost for "Strength of Earth Totem (Rank 5)" is now correct. 
-  "Nature's Guardian" will now work properly even when you don't have
   an enemy targeted.

Warlocks
-  Melee damage of "Felguard" has been reduced.
-  The damage increase component of "Soul Link" has been improved. The
   damage mitigation component has been reduced.
-  The cooldown of "Shadowfury" has been reduced to 20 sec, from 1 min.
-  The mana cost of "Soul Fire" has been reduced by approximately 45%.
-  The feedback from dispelling "Unstable Affliction" is now affected
   by "Shadow Mastery".
-  Pets will again have their mana reset to full in addition to their
   health when first summoned.
-  "Demonic Resilience" will now properly reduce pet damage taken.
-  Fire objects in the game world (bonfires, braziers) will no longer
   trigger "Nether Protection".
-  When a Warlock is under the effects of "Backlash" and "Nightfall",
   only one of the effects will be consumed by a "Shadow Bolt" cast.

Warriors
-  "Weapon Mastery" Rank 2 of this talent now grants full immunity to
   "Disarm" mechanics, and will properly display "Immune" when a
   "Disarm" is attempted.
-  "Slam's" swing time is no longer slowed by damage taken.
-  "Rampage's" rage cost has been reduced to 20.
-  The daze portion of "Piercing Howl" will now still land even if the
   target is already snared.
-  The bonus threat of "Devastate" on all ranks has been increased.
   Bonus threat will no longer decrease as ranks increase.

Items
-  The energy gained from "Thistle Tea" now decreases with levels past
   40.
-  "Idol of Ferocity" now increases "Claw" and "Rake" damage instead
   of reducing energy cost.
-  "Idol of Brutality" now increases "Maul" and "Swipe" damage instead
   of reducing rage cost.
-  "Idol of Health" now provides bonus healing on "Healing Touch"
   instead of reducing its cast time.
-  The rage gained from "Gri'lek's Charm of Might" now decreases with
   levels past 60.
-  The energy gained from "Renataki's Charm of Trickery" now decreases
   with levels past 60.
-  "Renataki's Charm of Beasts" no longer resets the cooldown on Arcane
   Shot.
-  "Wushoolay's Charm of Nature" now provides haste rating instead of
   reducing "Healing Touch" cast time.
-  "Wushoolay's Charm of Spirits" now increases "Lightning Shield"
   damage by a flat amount instead of a percentage.
-  "Hazza'rah's Charm of Destruction" now increases spell crit rating
   instead of spell crit percent.
-  "Hazza'rah's Charm of Magic" now increases Arcane spell damage
   instead of providing a spell crit bonus.
-  "Tidal Charm" Now has a chance of failure against targets over level
   60.
-  "The Black Book" now provides a flat amount of spell power, attack
   power, and armor to your pet, instead of by a percentage.
-  "Rune of Metamorphosis" now reduces mana cost of shapeshiting by a
   flat amount, instead of by a percentage.
-  "Lifegiving Gem" now provides 1500 healing and bonus max health
   instead of a percentage of your max health.
-  "Venomous Totem" now increases damage dealt by "Instant Poison" and
   "Deadly Poison" instead of increasing poison land chance.
-  "Natural Alignment Crystal" now increases Nature spell damage by a
   flat amount instead of by a percentage.
-  "Pristine South Seas Kelp" now provides spell crit rating instead
   of spell crit chance.
-  "Devilsaur Tooth" now grants your pet crit rating instead of a
   guaranteed crit.
-  "Wail of the Banshee" now has a chance of failure against targets
   over level 60.
-  The threat reduction from Fetish of the Sand Reaver now decreases
   with levels past 60.
-  The threat reduction from "Eye of Diminution" now decreases with
   levels past 60.
-  "Stygian Buckler" now has a chance of failure against targets over
   level 60.
-  "Horned Viking Helmet" now has a chance of failure against targets
   over level 60.
-  "Gnomish Mind Control Cap" now has a greater chance of failure
   against targets over level 60.
-  "Goblin Rocket Helmet" now has a chance of failure against targets
   over level 60.
-  "Clutch of Foresight" now has a chance of failure against targets
   over level 60.
-  "Flash Bomb" now has a chance of failure against targets over level
   60.
-  The "Green Dragon Mail" Set +15% mana regenerationhas been replaced
   with 20 mana per 5 sec.
-  The "Vestments of Transcendence" Set +15% mana regeneration has been
   replaced with 20 mana per 5 sec.
-  The "Stormrage Raiment Set" +15% mana regeneration has been replaced
   with 20 mana per 5 sec.
-  The Thunderclap set bonus for "Conqueror's Battlegear" is no longer
   cumulative with the "Thunderclap" talent.
-  The reduction in cooldown on Rapid Fire from the "Striker's Garb"
   Set bonus is no longer cumulative with the "Rapid Killing" talent.
-  The Paladin abilities Flash of Light and Holy Light will again
   correctly use charges from the "Zandalarian Hero Charim".
-  The Paladin abilities Flash of Light and Holy Light will again
   correctly activate charges from the "Talisman of Ascendence".
-  Collector's Edition pets are now be blue items.

Professions
-  Enchantments
-  The Crusader Enchantment now decreases in potency for wielders above
   level 60.
-  The Icy Chill Enchantment now decreases in potency for wielders above
   level 60.
-  The Lifestealing Enchantment now decreases in potency for wielders
   above level 60.
-  Blacksmithing/Leatherworking specialization has changed with
   specialization providing recipes to make powerful items that only
   you can wear. You can now unlearn a blacksmithing or leatherworking
   specialization and learn a different one by finding the appropriate
   NPC, paying the fee to unlearn your old specialization, and then
   find the new specialist to learn a new one. Also, all of the old
   blacksmithing/leatherworking recipes that required specialization no
   longer require it and can be learned by any blacksmith/leatherworker.
-  Silver/Golden/Mystic/Runic Spellthread have been increased in power.

User Interface
-  The Auction House will now sort items first by buyout price then by
   current price.
-  Added a new option to the Looking for Group and Looking for More
   panel to choose Heroic Mode Dungeons.
-  Players will now be able to pull out a pet window to see all the
   pets in the raid.
-  Added Ranged and Spell stats as a display option for the G15
   keyboard.
-  Updated the Sound Options menu to include a checkbox for Hardware 
   Acceleration and a slider for Sound Channels.
   PC default is "Hardware Acceleration = ON" and "Sound Channels = LOW".
   Players that experience poor system performance can set "Hardware 
   Acceleration=OFF" which may improve performance but will disable any
   EAX (reverberation) effects supported by their sound card.
   Players with more powerful systems can raise the "Sound Channels" 
   slider to increase the number of simultaneous sounds in the game, 
   providing a more immersive soundscape.
   Mac users will not have a checkbox or slider available due to the 
   Mac's default setting of "Hardware Acceleration = OFF" and the 
   "Sound Channels = HIGH".
-  Updated the Sound Options menu to include a checkbox for Hardware
   Sound.
-  API Changes
   NEW: Dismount()
   NEW: equippable = IsEquippableItem(item)
   NEW: link = GetInboxItemLink(index)
   NEW: button = GetMouseButtonClicked() -- Returns the name of the
   button that triggered a mouse down/up/click/doubleclick event.
   NEW: hasMacro = CursorHasMacro()
   NEW: "item", itemID, link = GetCursorInfo() OR "spell", slot,
   "spell" or "pet" = GetCursorInfo() OR "macro", index =
   GetCursorInfo() OR "money", amount = GetCursorInfo()
- Macro Features
   NEW: /dismount
   /castsequence will equip items if they need to be equipped, and use
   them otherwise.
   The following commands now support the [target=unit] macro option
   syntax: /startattack, /petattack, /target, /assist, /focus
   If you add a #showtooltip line to your macro, it will show the
   tooltip of the item or spell in addition to the normal visual
   feedback.
   A unit's name can be used anywhere a unit token can be used.  e.g.
   if you had the player Desmondia in your party, /cast
   [target=Desmondia]Flash Heal, would cast Flash Heal on her.
   This will only work for the player, pet, party members and pets,
   and raid members and pets.  You can use "-target" or "-pet" to
   indicate the target or pet of the named unit, e.g. /cast
   [target=Desmondia-target,harm] Shadow Word: Pain
-  Key Bindings
   Holding down ctrl, alt, shift, x will check keybindings in the
   following order: ALT-CTRL-SHIFT-X, CTRL-SHIFT-X, ALT-SHIFT-X,
   ALT-CTRL-X, SHIFT-X, CTRL-X, ALT-X, X
   Key bindings that directly cast spells or use items now respect the
   self-cast modifier.
-  Frame Methods
   UPDATED: protected, explicit = Frame:IsProtected() -- New 'explicit'
   return value
-  Tooltip Methods
   NEW: isUnit = Tooltip:IsUnit("unit")
   NEW: name = Tooltip:GetUnit()
   NEW: name, link = Tooltip:GetItem()
   NEW: name, rank = Tooltip:GetSpell()
   Added several script handlers which are called when the tooltip is
   set to a unit, item, or spell: OnTooltipSetUnit, OnTooltipSetItem,
   OnTooltipSetSpell
-  Cooldown Indicators
   There's a new cooldown indicator frame that replaces the previous
   model file. The old syntax: &lt;Model
   inherits="CooldownFrameTemplate"/&gt; should be replaced by
   &lt;Cooldown inherits="CooldownFrameTemplate"/&gt;
-  Secure Templates
   Added an action type "attribute" to secure action buttons which
   sets an arbitrary attribute on an arbitrary frame.
   Added support for state header resizing and re-parenting on state
   changes.
-  Saved Variables
   Arrays that are stored as saved variables are now saved using lua's
   array initializer syntax for optimal memory usage and performance on
   load.
-  Bug Fixes
   Unit frames will respond to modified clicks by default.
   Action buttons no longer use shift-click to pick up actions, but
   instead use shift-drag. This frees up the shift modifier for use
   in macros or as a self-cast modifier.
   MovePad will work again.
   Fixed taint issues with the unit menus (dueling, dismissing pets,
   etc.)
   Fixed taint issues with CloseLoot()
   Fixed taint issues with PickupContainerItem()
   Fixed taint issue with raid UI not showing in combat (buttons in main
   raid UI are no longer secure unit buttons)
   Fixed /reply in macros
   Fixed a bug where /petattack would target the nearest unit, not the
   nearest live enemy unit.
   The macro "button:N" conditional will work with either the real
   button clicked or the state-header-remapped button that launched the
   macro.
   /click now works with secure action buttons
   Fixed issue whereby creating Textures/FontStrings from a template
   used the template name instead of the specified region name.

Mac
-  The "Enable sound in background" option is now implemented, default 
   on Mac is "on" as before.
-  Fixed an issue with SetBindingItem, SetBindingSpell, SetBindingMacro
   LUA functions.
-  Addressed a graphics issue where changing the WorldFrame's 
   coordinates would show a field of the fog color in the area outside 
   of the world view instead of black, on NVIDIA GPU's, when indoors, 
   with Full Screen Glow enabled.
-  Addressed a graphics issue affecting NVIDIA GeForce3 and GeForce 4Ti
   GPU's when certain particle effects were visible on screen such as 
   Naxxramas loot.
-  Music looping is now fixed.

Bug Fixes
-  Characters on your friends list that are deleted will now properly 
   be removed from the friends list.
-  Players will now be put back into the cross-realm battleground raid 
   group after relogging from a force quit.
-  You will now be able to remove players from other realms from your 
   ignore list after leaving the battleground.
-  Players who return from a disconnect in an Arena battle will now be 
   correctly credited as being alive by the scoreboard.
-  When you craft an item with a random property, it will now display it
   has random properties in the crafting UI.
-  Characters will no longer be rooted in place until logout when being
   force-quit during the opening cinematic.
-  Pet statistics will now appear in green when being buffed by an 
   outside source.
-  You should now get the mail indicator when your inventory is too 
   full after leaving a battleground.
-  Spell penetration should now properly update on the character sheet.
-  Certain throwing weapons will no longer be consumed when used as a 
   throwing weapon.
-  Certain throwing weapons have had a damage range added to their 
   tooltip.
-  Reduced the cost of some battleground rewards.
-  The druid Restoration Talent "Tree of Life" healing buff is no 
   longer being removed from the Druid if afflicted by a "Banish" spell.
-  "Moonkin Form" and "Tree of Life" form now have a casting animation 
   for "Warstomp".
-  The druid talent skill "Tree of Life" now has a swimming animation.
-  Adjusted the tooltip for Barkskin to reflect the proper functionality.
-  "Insect Swarm" Rank 6 will now benefit from the clearcasting effect 
   from "Omen of Clarity".
-  The hunter spell "Volley" has had its tooltip updated to reflect 
   that it is channeled.
-  The hunter spell "Flare" will now properly reveal Mages that used 
   "Invisibility".
-  The tooltip for the crit bonus granted to feral druid from the 
   talent "Predatory Instincts" will now reflect the proper amount.
-  The hunter Marksmanship ability "Silencing Shot" is now triggering 
   the "Auto-Shot" ability after using the ability.
-  "Misdirection" will now redirect the threat from "Distracting Shot".
-  "Serpent Sting's" initial, non-threatening application no longer 
   consumes a charge of Misdirection.
-  "Disengage" now reduces threat on the misdirected target and also 
   consumes one charge of "Misdirection".
-  Hunter Survival talent "Wyvern Sting" at Rank 4 will now cause the
   correct amount of damage as indicated in the tooltip.
-  The hunter Survival Talent "Readiness" will now finish the cooldown
   of the ability "Wyvern Sting".
-  Mages using "Molten Armor" on themselves and being hit while casting
   "Arcane Missiles" or "Blizzard" will no longer cancel the spells.
-  The mage spell "Ice Armor" will now be affected by the talent "Frost
   Warding".
-  "Spellsteal" and "Detect Magic" now benefit from the mage talent 
   Arcane Focus.
-  The mage spell "Arcane Blast" will now receive the mana reduction 
   benefits from "Clearcasting".
-  The mage spell "Fire Ward" rank 6 will now properly overwrite 
   previous ranks of "Fire Ward".
-  "Ice block" will now make a mage immune to "Avenger's shield".
-  "Blazing Speed" will now remove movement impairing effects when it
   procs.
-  Casting "Ice Lance" will no longer consume the mage's talent 
   "Presence of Mind" buff.
-  "Arcane Missiles" will no longer continue to channel after the 
   target is dead.
-  "Ice Lance", "Frost Armor", and "Ice Armor" will now receive the 
   benefits from the mage talent Elemental Precision.
-  The mage Fire talent "Critical Mass" will now properly update on 
   the character sheet UI.
-  The paladin holy talent "Holy Guidance" will now effect damage from 
   "Seal of Righteousness".
-  "Benediction" will now decrease the mana cost of "Seal of Blood".
-  "Shadow Word Death" will no longer do damage to the casting priest 
   when resisted.
-  "Holy Fire" (rank 9) cast time has been adjusted for consistency with
   all other ranks of "Holy Fire" to 3.5 seconds.
-  The priest Discipline talent "Reflective Shield" will no longer 
   cause the recipient of the shield to perform a cast animation every 
   time the shield reflects damage.
-  "Prayer of Mending" no longer procs the heal when all damage is 
   absorbed.
-  Priests backlash effect of "Shadow Word: Death" will now properly 
   be applied and can no longer be resisted.
-  The visual effect of "Shadowform" will no longer persist if disabled
   while mounted.
-  Updated the tooltip on "Cloak of Shadows" with the additional line, 
   "Does not remove effects that prevent you from using Cloak of Shadows."
-  The rogue Assassination Talent "Quick Recovery" will no longer 
   refunding energy back to the Rogue if a finishing move is partially blocked.
-  A "Vanished" rogue will no longer be taken out of their 
   "vanished state" when they resist a spell.
-  The rogue Assasination talent "Find Weakness" will now work properly
   with the finishing move "Deadly Throw".
-  Using the rogue ability "Mutilate" when not behind your target will 
   no longer initiate combat.
-  The rogue ability "Slice and Dice" will no longer be reported twice 
   in floating combat text when used.
-  "Mind-Numbing Poison" will no longer stack with both 
   "Curse of Tongues" and "Slow".
-  The shaman talent "Totemic Mastery" will now increase 
   "Wrath of Air Totem's" radius.
-  The shaman talents "Elemental Mastery","Shamanistic Rage" and the 
   troll racial "Berserking" can no longer be used in "Ghost Wolf" 
   form.
-  The shaman "Greater Fire Elemental" and "Greater Earth Elemental" 
   will now spawn in with full health.
-  The shaman abilities "Water Shield" and "Earth Shield" can no longer
   be over written by lower ranks.
-  The shaman talent "Mental Quickness" will now properly reduce the 
   casting cost of "Bloodlust" and "Heroism".
-  The damage dealt from "Greater Fire Elemental" and "Greater Earth 
   Elemental" is now displayed in the combat log.
-  The shaman Restoration talent "Totemic Focus" will now be applied to
   "Earth Elemental Totem" and "Fire Elemental Totem".
-  The warlock talent "Demonic Resilience" does will now properly 
   reduce the amount of damage pets are taking.
-  "Unstable Affliction" is now improved by the talent "Shadow Mastery".
-  Pyroclasm will now properly function with all ranks of "Soul Fire" 
   and "Hellfire" rank 4.
-  The warlock Demonology talent "Fel Intellect" (all ranks) will now 
   properly affect Felhunter intellect.
-  Crit chance of the spell "Incinerate" is now being affected by the 
   2nd rank of the Warlock Destruction talent "Devastation".
-  Warlock pet "Felguard" will now use the appropriate sounds.
-  Using a grimoire to teach your demon pet a spell while it is under 
   the effects of "Banish" will no longer consume the grimoire, but the
   pet is immune and will not learn the spell.
-  Warriors with full "Weapon Mastery" talent will now be shown to have
   immunity towards disarm.
-  The "Shield Bash" rank 4 daze effect will now properly slow the 
   target and has had its tooltip updated.
-  Warriors will no longer being re-entered into a combat state if the 
   character switches stances after killing a mob.
-  "Second Wind" will no longer improperly proc off of a mob's daze.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 2.0.1 (2006-12-05)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Looking for Group Interface Tool

A new Looking For Group tool designed to assist players in finding groups for
instanced dungeons and quests will now be available. This interface gives 
players the option to be added to a pool of other players also looking for a 
group, as a means to expedite the process. In addition, players will also be
able to search for additional members in situations where they have a group
and are simply looking to find more players.

For a complete overview of this new interface, please take a moment and read the
information contained on our comprehensive Looking for Group preview.

http://www.worldofwarcraft.com/burningcrusade/townhall/lookingforgroup.html


General

- All players will have their talent points reimbursed and will have access to
new talents throughout their trees; this includes the 41-point talents. Several
new abilities have also been added for all classes.
- All pets will now receive a percentage of their master's armor, spell damage,
spell resistances, attack power, and stamina.
- Low-level spells cast by high-level players will receive smaller bonuses from
+healing and +spell damage.
- HoTs, DoTs, and channeled spells have been re-balanced to receive a more
appropriate (higher) percentage of +spell damage and +healing.
- HoTs from different sources will now stack (i.e. multiple druids can cast the
Rejuvenation spell on 1 target).
- New item property "Resilience" has been introduced. Resilience reduces your
chance to be the victim of a critical strike, and reduces the amount of damage
critical strikes do to you.
- Weapon Skill now does the following:
  - Weapon skill will no longer reduce the percentage damage lost due to
glancing.
  - The player will gain 0.1% to their critical strike rating per weapon skill
against monsters above their level.
- When casting a buff on a low level target, the appropriate rank of the buff
will automatically be applied.
- In PvP, Crowd Control effects will last no longer than 12 seconds instead of
the full duration, with a chance of a heartbeat resist.
- Players will no longer lose faction when under the influence of "Mind Control"
or the Gnomish Mind Control Cap.
- Several improvements have been made to the Macintosh client, including support
for Multi-Threaded OpenGL on Intel Macs running OS X 10.4.8 or higher.


PvP

- Honor System Revamp
  - Current honor totals have been reset.
  - Players may display their highest lifetime rank title (accessible from
character sheet).
  - Honor points earned each day may now be spent as a form of currency.
  - Check the PvP tab of your character sheet to see your honor information.
  - PvP rewards are no longer unique.
- Marks of Honor earned from battlegrounds are no longer turned in for
reputation or honor. They are now used in addition to honor points in order to
purchase rewards.
- Two New Arenas are now available in three different modes.
  - 2v2, 3v3, and 5v5 matches
  - Players may queue up at Goblin NPC's in Stormwind, Ironforge,
  - Orgrimmar, Undercity, and Gadgetzan


Druids

- The talent "Swiftmend" will now include bonus healing from the talents
"Improved Rejuvenation" and "Empowered Rejuvenation".
- "Feline Swiftness" has been renamed "Feral Swiftness". Dodge % increase now
also applies to Bear and Dire Bear Forms.
- "Improved Moonfire" has been reduced to 2 ranks, for a 5/10% bonus.
- "Insect Swarm" has had damage on all ranks increased. Mana cost of ranks 1,3
increased. Mana cost of ranks 4,5,6 decreased.
- "Nurturing Instinct" now grants the benefit at all times, but the bonus has
been reduced to 25/50% of Strength.
- "Omen of Clarity's" duration has been increased to 30 min.
- "Improved Starfire" has been renamed to "Celestial Focus". It now also
increases the chance to resist pushback when casting Wrath by 25/50/70%.
- "Blood Frenzy's" benefits have now merged with "Primal Fury".
- "Improved Leader of the Pack" has been reduced to 2 ranks for 2/4% total
health healed.
- "Pounce" no longer requires the druid to be behind the target.
- "Barkskin" is now usable while stunned.

Hunters

- Traps can be set while in combat, but require a 2 second arming time.
- "Auto shot" will be automatically enabled if the Hunter steps out of melee
range while in combat with target.
- 1 Agility will now grant 1 Ranged Attack Power.
- "Auto shot" is now reset when casting Aimed Shot.
- "The Beast Within's" Bonus damage caused has been reduced to 10%, but now also
reduces the mana cost of all spells by 20%.
- Freezing Traps will now cancel combat when cast.

Mages

- "Frost Nova" (Water Elemental Spell) has now been renamed "Freeze".

Shaman

- Shaman with the appropriate talent spec are now able to dual-wield.
  - Self-weapon buffs such as Windfury Weapon can be applied to both main and
off-hand weapons.
- Rockbiter's weapon functionality has been changed. It is now a damage proc
instead of a flat attack power bonus.
- Windfury Weapon and Rockbiter Weapon enchantments will only benefit the weapon
with the enchantment on it.


Warlocks

- The range of "Drain Life" and "Drain Mana" spells have been increased.


Warriors

- Rage generation from dealing damage has been normalized.
  - All Rage awards are averaged with our expected rage per swing (adjusted for
weapon speed).


Items

- The "Far Sight" effect has changed so that the camera now zooms in to a
distant location, rather than instantly showing the distant view. This also
affects the items: Ultra-Spectropic Vision Goggles, the Ornate Spyglass, and the
Hunter ability "Eagle Eye."
- Spells can now require either a totem item or a totem category item to cast a
spell. This means that the Enchanting Rods now count as all of the lower level
enchanting rods as well, so you only need a single enchanting rod instead of all
six. This also means that "Finkle's Skinner" now counts as a Skinning Knife.
Several weapons that are picks have been flagged as counting as a Mining pick as
well.
- Items that give bonuses, such as critical strike percentage, have been
modified to adhere to a combat rating system.
- All current items will provide the exact same benefit from ratings at level 60
as they provided before the ratings system.
- Thrown weapon items no longer stack, but use durability instead. One unit of
durability is lost per throw, and these items can be repaired.
- The tool tip for the Great Staff of the Guardian now shows the proper increase
of 28 to the party spell critical rating.
- Items that are useable from player inventory with a cooldown will now update
the cooldown in real-time.
- Players will no longer be able to sell the "Blue Skeletal Horse" to vendors.
- The damage Proc from the item "Misplaced Servo Arm" will no longer break the
Rogue ability "Gouge".
- The "Skull of Impending Doom" has been changed and will now increase run speed
by 60% for 10 seconds, but deals damage equal to 60% of your maximum health and
drains 60% of your maximum mana for over 10 seconds.
- The Backfire effect on the "Net-O-Matic" will no longer break on damage.


Professions

- All of the profession-made items that have been created up to now have been
given proper stats based on the current expansion item level progression table.
- Most of the items made by Tailoring/Leatherworking/Blacksmithing have had
their creation time reduced. Now the cap on time required to make an item in
those professions is based on quality and level.
  - New Max times required.
    - Level 31+ Green Items at least 8 sec
    - Level 31+ Blue Items at least 15 sec
    - Level 31+ Purple Items at least 25 sec
- Skill level now determines what items you can disenchant.
  - Skill 1= Level 1-20
  - Skill 25= Level 20-25
  - Skill 50= Level 25-30
  - Skill 75= Level 30-35
  - Skill 100= Level 35-40
  - Skill 125= Level 40-45
  - Skill 150= Level 45-50
  - Skill 175= Level 50-55
  - Skill 200= Level 55-60
  - Skill 225= Level 60-65
- Players will no longer lose an item when attempting to disenchant on a boat
when the loading screen appears.


User Interface

- Meeting Stone gossip options have been removed from Innkeepers in preparation
for the new LFG system.
- LFG/LFM UI
  - Tips have been added to Loading Screen tips and new player tips
  - Meeting Stones now function similar to a Warlock Summon spell.
    - Players select party member to be summoned and right click the stone. A
second party member then clicks the portal to summon.
- Enchanting UI has been vastly improved.
- Raid UI now supports frame for Main Tank.
- Spell Alert (Enemy Cast bar)
  - Defaults to off
  - Enabled through Interface Options
  - Displays targeted enemy's cast bar when they are casting.
  - May also be displayed with "V" key functionality.
- Auto-loot may be enabled with just one click in the Interface Options.
- Character sheet UI now displays more precise melee, ranged, and spell stats.
- Players can now cast item targetable spells on items that are in your action
bar. For instance you can cast feed pet and have the food you want the pet to be
fed in one of your action bars.
- Semi-charged items can no longer be placed in the Auction House.
- A knowledge base has been added to the in-game UI.
  - Searchable database of FAQ's and common support issues.
- Keyrings have been expanded to hold more key-type items and will now size
dynamically for the number of keys in possession.
- The Hunter ability, "Mend Pet," will now turn red when a pet is out of range.
- Players will now be able to disable ability messages in the floating combat
text.
- Players will now be able to scroll down their ignore list if it extends beyond
one page.
- The tooltips for the Show Dispellable Debuffs and Show Castable Buffs options
will now specify they only apply to raid pullout groups.
- Significant changes have been made to User Interface customization.
  - For specific details, please visit
http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/thread.html?topicId=36975623&sid=1.


Bugs

- The Rend Blackhand arena event in Upper Blackrock Spire will now properly
reset after a wipe.
- Players will no longer resurrect with low mana and health if they died and
released on a Zeppelin or Ship.
- Fixed an issue where effects with 100% chance to be applied were being
resisted.
- Fixed an issue where high level players were not being properly credited the
right amount of faction reputation.
- Party members will now be properly credited for completing the "Dead Man's
Plea" quest when a totem or pet gets the killing blow on Baron Rivendare.
- Slowing abilities and spells will no longer decrease the speed of a player
when traveling by Gryphon.
- Fixed an issue where players were re-taining talent based abilities even after
re-training.
- Fixed an issue where the Warlock spell "Shadowburn" was improperly consuming
two Soul Shards.
- Fixed an issue where players were unable to click on anything if they had any
add-ons installed.
- Fixed an issue where players were able to use "Mana Burn" on mobs and players
without mana.
- Fixed an issue where spells that proc while a player was standing would not
proc if they were sitting or lying down.
- Fixed many interface overlapping graphic issues.
- Fixed an issue where Seal of Justice (Rank 2) will now refresh with melee
strikes.
- Blood Elf mobs in Azshara will now have the correct model.
- Fixed an issue where a spell with two procs would be reflected and one of the
procs would still hit the player that reflected the spell.
- Fixed an issue that was putting Hunters back into combat when they have the
"Spirit Bond" Talent or have the Cryptstalker set bonus.
- Fixed an issue where players were being awarded the wrong item when double
looting a corpse under the master loot option.
- Fixed an issue where players interrupted while casting would have a longer
cast time than normal.
- Fixed an issue where players could not see enchants when inspecting another
player.
- Fixed an issue where extra attacks from "Windfury Weapon" would not proc
"Flurry" when they crit.
- Fixed an issue where players that were killed in freezing traps would be stuck
there until releasing.
- Fixed an issue where Warlocks were able to despawn a pet to gain a free "Soul
Shard"in the Battlegrounds.
- Warrior "Shield Slam" and "Shield Bash" will no longer trigger a proc from an
equipped weapon.
- Fixed an issue where players were able to consume a Mana Emerald at full mana.
- The totem, "Wrath of Air," will no longer be useable in "Ghost Wolf" form.
- Fixed an issue where Warrior "Battle Shout" was causing too much threat.
- Fixed an issue where computers with ATi video cards were sometimes having
problems when displaying a certain texture.
- Fixed an issue where the Warlock spell "Death Coil" gained double the benefit
from the talent "Shadow Mastery".
- Player pets will no longer attack CC'ed targets while in Passive mode.
- "Prayer of Spirit" will no longer cast on the user if there is no other target
selected.
- "Lightning Shield" will now have the appropriate cool-down time between uses.
- Fixed an issue where materials were being consumed if a player logged out
before an enchantment had finished being applied.
- The Hunter, "Auto Shot," ability will no longer activate on resurrection.
- Fixed a bug where "Inner Focus" was not being consumed when using "Mind
Soothe."
- Fixed a bug where Rogues were able to use the ability "Ghostly Strike" when
not facing their target.
- Warlock pet dismiss sounds will now play properly.
- Fixed an issue where Fist weapons were sheathing improperly.
- Bags will no longer overlap the Bank UI when the game window is resized.
- Players will no longer be able to whisper to enemy players in Battlegrounds.
- The Skeletal Gryphon ride for the Eastern Plaguelands PvP event will now fly
at its correct speed.
- Players will no longer be able to jump onto the top of the Dun Baldar Fortress
in Alterac Valley and get behind the terrain to attack other players.
- Shapeshifting will now break "Nogginfogger Elixir" effect.
- You will no longer die when Feign Death is finished channeling.
- "Scatter Shot" will now properly do damage even if the target is immune to the
confuse effect.
- "Aspect of the Cheetah" will now properly trigger with absorbed damage.
- Casting a lower rank polymorph on a target that is already under the effect of
a higher rank will cause an error message and not consume mana.
- The talent, "Master of Elements," will now properly proc off of totems.
- Players will no longer be attacked by same faction guards when using mind
control on an enemy player to attack.
- "Vanish" will now properly un-target the Rogue from the attacker when the
attacker is in the same party.
- The talent, "Improved Chain Heal," will now properly add to the base healing
done.
- "Healing Wave" Ranks 11 and 12 will now benefit from the Shaman talent,
"Healing Way."
- "Improved Curse of Agony" will now properly increase the base and spell power.
- Warlocks will now be properly credited a Soul Shard from their pet when they
take a flight path.
- Warlocks will now be properly credited a Soul Shard from their pet when they
are dead at the end of a Battleground match.
- Warlocks will now be properly credited a Soul Shard from their pet when they
enter an Arena.
- Casting "Dark Pact" after exiting combat will no longer put you back in
combat.
- The tool tip for the "Great Staff of the Guardian" now shows the proper
increase of 28 to the party spell critical rating.
- Several Chest spawns in Dustwallow Marsh will now properly spawn above ground.
- Items that can give +Stamina/Intellect from random suffixes will now properly
apply while dead.
- "Beastmaster's Gloves" will now give the proper 2% crit chance for Hunter
pets.
- Fixed a bug where you can end up with overlapping bags after resizing the 
window.
- Various graphical errors will be noticeable while viewing maps.

Mac

- Added support for Multi-Threaded OpenGL on Intel Macs running OS X 10.4.8 
or higher.  Depending on hardware, scene and graphicalsettings, this can raise 
frame rates up to a factor of 2X.
- Improved video hardware detection and default settings, especially with 
Intel video.
- Vertex Animation Shaders have been disabled for systems with Intel video.
- Improved iTunes key-binding feature for smoothness and track name display.
- Fixed a bug where Tutorial Tips would not be marked as viewed correctly 
on PowerPC Macs.
- Fixed a rare crash bug in the audio code.
- Improved support for Weather Shaders.
- Added support for changing the mouse sensitivity in WoW. Previously, the 
Mac version ignored the value from the slider in the Interface Options dialog.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.12.2 (2006-10-12)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bugs
-  Fixed an issue where players were unable to resurrect at a Spirit 
   Healer. (Spanish Only) 
-  Fixed several issues with in-game slash commands. (Spanish Only) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.12.1 (2006-09-26)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

World PvP
-  Players will no longer lose the Silithus or Eastern Plaguelands PvP 
   buffs after dying in the zone.
-  Players will now port to the Crown Guard Tower graveyard if they die
   in Fungal Vale while their faction controls the tower.
-  Players will no longer be interrupted while sitting down in Eastern 
   Plaguelands when contested towers change ownership.
-  Players will no longer be interrupted while sitting down in Silithus
   when a side collects 200 Silithyst and wins the event.
-  In the Silithus World PVP event, the dust cloud graphic that appears
   on a flag carrier will now properly trail behind the character while
   running.
-  Players will no longer receive honor if a tower in Eastern 
   Plaguelands is captured while they are stealthed.
-  Lordaeron's Blessing buff from Eastern Plaguelands is no longer 
   dispellable.
-  Players on Windows machines will now hear the victory music when 
   their faction fully captures a tower in the Eastern Plaguelands.
   
Warlocks
-  Players that log out of the game and back while having a pet 
   summoned will now be properly credited a Soul Shard.
-  Warlock pet sounds have now been added in all languages.
   
Warriors
-  Canceling Bloodrage while in PvP or dueling will no longer remove
   you from combat.
   
Items
-  Most enchantments on items are no longer counted against the maximum
   limit of effects a player can have on them, so it should be much 
   harder for a player to exceed their max limit on effects and have 
   one be removed involuntarily.
-  Fixed a graphical error with the Dreadnaught Helmet.
-  Fixed an issue in which the "Blessing of the Claw"from the 6 piece
   Dreamwalker set was causing players to stand up after trying to eat 
   or drink.
-  Fixed an issue where multiple armor set bonuses were not applying 
   correctly when switching out pieces.
-  Fixed an issue where the four-piece Plagueheart set was not properly
   applying to corruption.
-  The Blade of Eternal Darkness will now only proc when damage is done.
-  Fixed a graphical error with the Dreadmist mask in which it would 
   float above the Tauren Females' head.
-  Fixed a graphical error in which enchantment glows were not updating
   if the same item with a different enchant or no enchant was equipped.
   
User Interface
-  UI windows will now be positioned correctly if the right action bar 
   is activated.
-  When going from Windowed mode to Full-Screen mode, player names will
   no longer be replaced with "..."
-  The Quest Tracker will now properly display purchased quest items.
-  The Battle Map in Outdoor PvP and in the Battlegrounds will no 
   longer get stuck when dragging with the cursor in windowed mode.
-  The Battle Map in Alterac Valley will no longer switch off whenever
   a graveyard,tower or mine changes ownership.

Bugs
-  Players will now be able to complete the quest,"Target: Hive'Ashi 
   Sandstalkers".
-  Fixed an issue where players could be afflicted by "Withering Touch"
   more than once at a time.
-  The Plaguewood teleporter will now teleport players to the correct 
   location within Naxxramas.
-  Fixed an issue where players were getting the message "Invalid" when
   trying to select flight paths.
-  Fixed an issue where if the disenchant window was forced closed, a 
   player would lose both their reagent and the item they were 
   disenchanting.
-  Fixed an issue where players could crash while fighting Anub'Rekhan.
-  Fixed an issue in which players trying to disenchant an item with a
   full inventory and then casting a spell afterward would lose the 
   reagent and the item.
-  Fixed an issue where weapon procs will now work with instant 
   abilities.
-  Pet buffs will now apply and remove properly.
-  The Priest talent Spirit Tap will no longer sometimes proc off of 
   totems.
   
Mac
-  Players will no longer hear any sound when they have "Enable all 
   Sound" turned off.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.12.0 (2006-08-22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Drums of War

Cross-Realm Battlegrounds
-  For the first time in the history of World of Warcraft, you will be
   able to face off against players from other realms in the
   Battlegrounds. PvP Battlegrounds link Alterac Valley, Warsong Gulch,
   and Arathi Basin so that players from several realms will be
   combined into one huge matchmaking pool. Replenish your mana,
   sharpen your blades, and get ready for some brand-new challengers!

World PvP
-  The stage is set for intense, objective-based land battles as Horde
   and Alliance vie for control over important strategic positions and
   resources around Azeroth. Head out for Silithus and Eastern
   Plaguelands to engage the enemy on the field!

General
-  Threat Reduction Effects
   This system has been redesigned to eliminate inconsistency in how
   the effects work. Previously, some were additive (for example: 30%
   reduction + 20% reduction = 50% reduction) while others were
   multiplicative (30% reduction and 20% reduction made 44% reduction,
   from 0.7*0.8). They are now all multiplicative. This also prevents
   unpredictable behavior when the total reduction percentage was equal
   to or greater than 100%. Please note that in almost all cases, when
   stacking multiple threat reduction effects you will experience less
   threat reduction than previously.
-  Haste and Slow effects
   Previously Haste and Slow effects worked inconsistently, with spells
   working differently from weapons, and hastes and slows not acting as
   inverses of each other. We have revised the system so that all haste
   and slow effects work the same way, and haste and slow percentages
   of the same magnitude perfectly cancel each other out (30% haste and
   30% slow combine to no change). As a result, we had to change the
   tooltip numbers on all spell haste effects, and on all melee and
   range slow effects. The numbers in the tooltips are different, but
   the game functionality is unchanged (other than slight rounding
   errors). Those tooltips that changed will now display larger numbers
   than they used to display. Conceptually, haste values indicate how
   much more of that activity you can perform in a given time. 30%
   melee haste means 30% more swings in a given time. Slow values
   indicate how much longer an activity takes to complete. 30% slow
   means an action takes 30% longer to finish.
-  The deserter debuff will now continue to expire even while you are
   offline.
-  Honorable Kills now diminish at a rate 10% per kill rather than 25%
   per kill.
-  Temporary item buffs (e.g. poisons, sharpening stones and shaman 
   weapon buffs) will no longer persist through zoning or logging out
   due to technical issues.  This feature is anticipated to be 
   activated once more with the expansion.

Druids
-  Barkskin: The tooltip has been changed to 25% due to the haste effect
   change.
-  Cat Form: This form now has an innate threat reduction component.
-  Ferocious Bite: Book of Ferocious Bite (Rank 5) now drops off The
   Beast in Black Rock Spire. In addition, Ferocious Bite now increases
   in potency with greater attack power.
-  Furor: This talent now works correctly with Cat Form again.
-  Improved Shred: The discounted cost for Shred will now be displayed
   correctly even when you are not in Cat Form.
-  Rip: Lesser potency Rips will no longer overwrite greater potency
   ones.
-  Fixed a bug where the incorrect sound was being played by the Claw
   attack.

Hunters
-  Spirit Bond: This ability will now be correctly reapplied when you
   resurrect in a battleground and your pet is polymorphed or otherwise
   unable to act normally.
-  Improved Concussive Shot: The effect of this talent will now still
   be placed on the victim if the hunter is killed before their shot
   reaches the target.
-  Growl now correctly initiates combat when used by a pet in passive
   mode.
-  The Ferocity talent now correctly applies to non-physical hunter pet
   abilities such as Lightning Breath and Thunderstomp.
-  If a hunter has tamed one of the following creature types, they will
   no longer potentially change colors if resummoned:
   Son of Hakkar - Red
   Frenzied Bloodseeker Bat - Brown
   Deep Stinger - Red
   Dark Screecher - Gray
   Cave Creeper - Brown
   Bloodaxe Worg - Black
   Scarshield Worg -Brown

Mages
-  Arcane Missiles: It is no longer possible to cast this spell on an
   evading mob. In addition, the animation will now stop when the target
   is dead.
-  Arcane Power: It is no longer possible to gain the benefit of this
   spell and Power Infusion at the same time by careful timing.
-  Frost Armor Chilled effect: Due to the haste effect change, the
   tooltip has been changed to 25%.
-  Ice Armor Chilled effect: Due to the haste effect change, the
   tooltip has been changed to 25%.
-  Ignite: The effect of this talent will now still be placed on the
   victim if the caster is killed before their spell reaches the
   target.
-  Impact: The effect of this talent will now still be placed on the
   victim if the caster is killed before their spell reaches the target.
-  Frostbite: The effect of this talent will now still be placed on the
   victim if the caster is killed before their spell reaches the target.
-  Polymorph: This spell will now be removed when a player leaves a
   battleground. This prevents some bugs involving polymorph from
   occurring.
-  Evocation will no longer be usable while silenced.
-  Reduced the number of messages that appear in the combat log when
   using Combustion.
-  Winter's Chill: The effect of this talent will now still be placed
   on the victim if the caster is killed before their spell reaches the
   target.

Paladins
-  Divine Shield: Due to the haste effect change, the tooltip has been
   changed to 100%.

Priests
-  Mind Control: Due to the haste effect change, the tooltip has been
   changed to 25%.
-  Psychic Scream: This spell now uses the same resistance checks as
   the Warlock spell Fear.
-  Spirit of Redemption: Fixed an issue preventing Twisting Nether from
   retriggering when the Spirit of Redemption effect runs out.

Rogues
-  Due to significant talent changes, Rogues will have all talent
   points refunded and can be re-spent. Training costs for all talent
   spell replacements have been significantly reduced.
-  Vanish now removes effects that allow the caster to always remain
   aware of their target (currently Hunter's Mark and Mind Vision).
-  Pickpocket can now be used on targets that are in combat, as long as
   the rogue remains stealthed.
-  All manner of rogue reagents can be found in locked junkboxes
   (obtained from pickpocketing).
-  Fixed a bug where the Slice and Dice ability wasn't playing an
   animation.
-  Lethargy Root has been removed from poison vendors and is now a gray
   item.
-  Reduced the number of messages in the combat log when using the
   Vanish ability.
-  Fixed a bug that made Combo Points disappear from your target when
   using Vanish.
-  Eviscerate: Manual of Eviscerate (Rank 9) now drops off Blackhand
   Assassins in Black Rock Spire. In addition, Eviscerate now increases
   in potency with greater attack power.
-  Garrote: The damage from this ability has been increased. In
   addition, Garrote now increases in potency with greater attack power.
-  Relentless Strikes: This ability will no longer trigger when your
   finishing move does not hit your target.
-  Rupture: Rupture now increases in potency with greater attack power.
-  Sap: Enemy rogues will now always lose stealth when you Sap them.

Shaman
-  Reincarnation should now display the cooldown timer when used.
-  Chain Heal - After the initial target is healed, the healing effect
   will jump to the most damaged target (by absolute health) within
   range. In addition, if a raid member is the initial target it will
   look for valid raid targets to jump to rather than non-raid targets
   as a priority, making it consistent with group targeted Chain Heals.
-  Lightning Shield: Air Bubble pockets in underwater regions will no
   longer consume a charge from this spell.

Warlocks
-  Cripple (Doomguard): Due to haste effect change, the tooltip has
   been changed to 45%.
-  Curse of Tongues: This spell will no longer debuff the target if 
   they are immune to the spellcast slowing effect
-  Enslave Demon: Due to haste effect change, the tooltip has been
   changed to 40%.
-  Health Funnel: This spell will now work correctly on low-level
   enslaved demons.
-  Howl of Terror: This spell now uses the same resistance checks as
   the Warlock spell Fear.
-  Siphon Life will now properly gain a benefit from Shadow Mastery.
-  A soul shard will be refunded to the caster any time a summoned pet
   despawns rather than dies.
-  Aftermath: The effect of this talent will now still be placed on the
   victim if the caster is killed before their spell reaches the target.
-  Improved Shadowbolt: The effect of this talent will now still be
   placed on the victim if the caster is killed before their spell
   reaches the target.
-  Life Tap: This spell now benefits from effects which increase your
   spell damage.  At rank 3 and above, the base amount of health lost
   and mana gained will increase by 80% of your bonus spell damage
   effects.  Talents and items can further modify those values.  Rank
   1 and 2 receive reduced effect.

Warriors
-  Bloodthirst: This ability will now correctly benefit from attack
   power bonuses versus specific creature types.
-  Flurry: The text on the tooltip has been corrected to indicate it
   triggers on all types of attacks.
-  Shield Slam: This ability will sometimes no longer remove more than
   one beneficial effect from the target.
-  Thunderclap: This ability was left at 10% despite the haste effect
   changes. This means its potency has been reduced slightly.

Items
-  +30 Spell Damage Enchantment: Fixed a bug with this enchantment
   which was preventing it from benefiting healing spells.
-  Blade of Eternal Darkness: The triggered effect from this weapon
   will no longer occur when the spell being cast has its effect broken
   by causing damage.
-  Blazefury Medallion: The triggered effect from this item will no
   longer break Gouge.
-  Bonescythe Armor: The Eviscerate bonus will no longer trigger when
   your Eviscerate does not hit your target.
-  Darkmoon Card- Twisting Nether: The dialog for this resurrection
   will now always reappear after the Spirit of Redemption effect has
   completed.
-  Earthfury Set: The mana refund effect can now only occur once per
   Healing Wave spell cast.
-  Earthshatter Set: The Lightning Shield bonus will now be removed if
   you lose the set bonus.
-  Eye of the Dead: Holy Shock now interacts properly with this item.
-  Ranged Elemental Damage: Our ranged combat system does not allow a
   ranged weapon to do a mix of Elemental (Fire, Frost, Arcane, etc.)
   and Physical damage. Many ranged weapons existed which were listed
   as doing Elemental damage and did not function properly (the damage
   was dealt, but was treated as Physical). All of those weapons have
   been changed to deliver the Elemental damage as a chance on hit
   effect. Hurricane was previously changed this way in 1.11. The
   following ranged weapons are also fixed in 1.12: Bow of Searing
   Arrows, Dwarven Hand Cannon, Heartseeking Crossbow, Dark Iron Rifle,
   Galgann's Fireblaster, Quillshooter, Shell Launcher Shotgun,
   Venomstrike, and Verdant Keeper's Aim.
-  Talisman of Ascendance: This item will no longer trigger from
   physical damage effects. In addition, if either of the buffs from
   the item are canceled, they will both be canceled.
-  Talisman of Ascendance: Holy Shock heals will now trigger the effect
   from this trinket. 
-  Zandalarian Hero Charm: Item tooltip corrected to match the effect
   tooltip.
-  The Items that summon mounts have been changed in their
   color/quality. Items that summon normal mounts are now blue
   (superior)items and items that summon swift mounts are now purple
   (epic) items.
-  Fixed a bug that allowed you to use items which restored health or
   mana while you were already full health or mana.
-  Fixed a bug with the Jom Gabbar trinket which was causing it to
   trigger a category cooldown for a duration longer than intended.
-  Wrath of Cenarius: This item will now trigger from Arcane Missiles.
-  Clarified the tooltips for the Stormshroud armor and Kalimdor's
   Revenge to explain that they deal Nature damage.
-  Fixed a bug that caused the Blooddrenched Mask to hide a character's
   hair.
-  Warbear leather now stacks to 20.
-  Thunderfury, Blessed Blade of the Windseeker may now be equipped in
   either hand.
-  Argent Shoulders no longer require a righteous orb to make.
-  The cooldown timer on transforming Anathema and Benediction may no
   longer be circumvented by zoning or logging out.

Professions
-  Engineering: The damage from sapper charges can now be resisted. The
   overall DPS of the charges should not be significantly altered from
   what it currently is.
-  Engineering: Explosive sheep do fire damage instead of physical
   damage.
-  Goblin Land Mines and Compact Harvest Reapers will no longer lock
   out using other engineering devices until the land mine/reaper dies.
   Harvest Reaper was given a 10 min self cooldown to prevent too many
   reapers from being summoned at once.

Raids and Dungeons
-  Uldaman
   Reduced the number of Shadowforge Ambushers that attack after
   looting the quest chest.
   Shadowforge Ambushers are no longer elite.
   The respawn of the Stone Stewards has been changed to 2 hours
   (from 30 minutes).
-  Zul'Farrak
   The respawn of the 2 Troll/1 Basilisk patrollers should now be 2
   hours.
   Reduced the damage dealt by the Sul'lithuz Abomination and
   Sul'lithuz Sandcrawler.
   Zul'Farrak Dead Heroes are no longer elites.
   Theka the Martyr will now only remain immune to physical damage for
   30 seconds before reverting to normal.
   Antu'sul's Sul'lithuz Broodlings now only hatch 4 at a time and are
   significantly weaker.
   Witch Doctor Zum'rah will no longer call as many Zul'Farrak Zombies
   to his aid when aggroed.
   Weegli Blastfuse now has slightly more hit points.
   Antu'sul's Warden no longer attempts to knock adventurers into
   Antu'sul's lair.
   Sandfury Cretins who engage the party during the pyramid event are
   no longer able to cast shadow bolt.
-  Maraudon
   Noxxious Scions will no longer spawn when you cleanse Celebrian
   Vines.
-  Ahn'Qiraj
   Lieutenant General Andronov's Aura of Command should no longer 
   generate threat. This will hopefully prevent him from pulling aggro
   on the entire wave, leading to his untimely death.
   Hive'Zara Hatchlings can now swim.
   Egg Explosion will no longer burn charges from spells such as 
   Lightning Shield.
   It should no longer be possible for Emperor Vek'lor and Vek'nilash
   to Unbalancing Strike or Arcane Burst immediately after a teleport.
   
User Interface
-  V key functionality has been improved in several ways.
   V key now shows summoned monsters (such as the gargoyles in
   Stratholme.)
   V key now shows both monsters and player enemies.
   V now shows enemies only (no longer shows friendly targets.)
   Shift-V now shows friendly targets only, not enemies (with a new
   bindable hotkey.)
   Control-V shows both friendly targets and enemy targets (with a new
   bindable hotkey.)
-  New floating combat text has been added to the game with a number of
   options. You can see when you take damage, when you are healed and
   how much, when you acquire and lose auras and much more. You can
   turn on the new options in the newly revised options screen.
-  There is now an option to turn on the display of your own name above
   your head. You can find the option in the interface options screen.
-  The Need Before Greed and Group Loot countdown timers will now have a
   3 minute countdown when there is a bind on acquire item on the
   corpse. This should allow a bit more time in making a decision to
   roll for an item.
-  Automatic Quest Tracking has been added to the game and is turned on
   by default. Any time you advance a quest by advancing one of the
   requirements, the quest information will appear on your screen for
   5 minutes before fading. You can turn this option off from the
   options screen.
-  The options screen has be redone and expanded due to space required
   for additional options. Also the location of various options has
   been changed in the options screen. They should make more sense now,
   though they will not be in quite the place you remember them being.
-  There is now a confirmation dialogue when you attempt to disband
   your guild.
-  When you destroy a superior quality (blue) or better item, you will
   get a dialogue that has you confirm deletion of that item.
-  Raid Pullout frames are now created on demand and will not take up
   any memory if you are not using them.
-  The player inspect range has been increased to 10 yards.
-  New API Functions
   Add-ons can send hidden chat messages to players in the party, raid
   or guild, using SendAddonMessage("prefix", "message", "PARTY"|"RAID"
   |"GUILD"|"BATTLEGROUND"). When players receive these messages, a new
   event "CHAT_MSG_ADDON" is sent, with arg1-arg3 being the parameters
   to SendAddonMessage(), and arg4 being the name of the player that
   sent it. The combined length of "prefix" and "message" must be less
   than or equal to 254 bytes.
   Added UnitPlayerOrPetInParty() and UnitPlayerOrPetInRaid().

Bug Fixes
-  Fixed a bug that caused some non-combat pets to be referred to as
   Minions instead of Pets. Mini Diablo however has escaped this fate
   and will continue to be referred to as a Minion.
-  Fixed a bug that was causing Ice Block to trigger a 5 minute
   cooldown on the Gnomish Cloaking Device.
-  Summon Dreadsteed no longer briefly puts you into combat.
-  Chain-targeted abilities cast by creatures no longer hit stealthed
   or invisible players.
-  Will of the Forsaken is no longer gray on the action bar while you
   are charmed.
-  Fixed a bug where large amounts of damage could go negative.
-  Non-combat pets are no longer affected by environmental damage.
-  The dressing room window will remain open and functional while
   zoning.
-  Fixed a bug allowing linked combat groups to be split when pathing
   fails.
-  Soul Link will persist across instance boundaries.
-  Item bonuses, buffs, and enchants will no longer be lost when 
   swapping an equipped item with another equipped item.
-  Stats will no longer fluctuate when putting points into stat 
   improving talents.
-  Devouring Plague will continue to heal the caster after the target
   is Mind Controlled.
-  Using /assist on a Mind Controlled target works properly now.
-  Recasting Feed Pet while using Feed Pet will reset the duration 
   of the cast.
-  Activating passive pet abilities while targeting an opposite faction
   player will no longer aggro neutral town guards.
-  If a Hunter is unflagged for PvP, an enemy faction rogue won't be 
   able to disarm his trap.
-  Fixed a bug causing the floating combat text from a killing blow 
   to be delayed until another unit is attacked.
-  Text with a scroll bar should no longer get clipped while in 
   windowed mode. 
-  Heals from spells such as Frenzied Regeneration will no longer close
   the loot window. 
-  Casting a spell while a loot window containing a disenchantment is 
   open will autoloot the item.
-  Pet spells can now be toggled in the pet spell book.
-  Grand Widow Faerlina's Rain of Fire no longer damages players 
   outside the area of effect.
-  Players can no longer drop from combat by repeatedly placing their
   pet into passive mode. 

World Environment
-  Cities
   Neutral guards are now able to see through the rogue Vanish ability.
-  Silithus
   Tortured Druids and Sentinels will now call only one Hive'Ashi drone
   on death.
   
Mac 
-  Added support for controlling iTunes from within World of Warcraft. 
   You can bind a set of keys for play/pause, next track, back track 
   and volume up and down.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.11.2 (2006-07-11)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- Fixed an issue where players were still being disconnected in 1.11.0 
  when trying to log back in within 20 seconds of a client crash.
- Fixed an issue where it was possible to place special bags inside one
  another.
- Applied a fix where players reported that they are sometimes unable 
  to resurrect at their corpse.
- Fixed a graphical error where when viewing a character from a second 
  computer, a player who had his weapons sheathed did not appear to 
  have any weapons on his side or back.
- Fixed an issue where a player received a fatigue bar after a 
  disconnection occurred during a flight path over deep water.
- The Looking For Group channel is now defaulted off.  Players will 
  need to join the channel to access it. (/join LFG)
- Fixed an issue where temporary weapon enhancements such as poisons 
  would not persist after zoning or logging.
  
Druids
- The tool tip for the talent Omen of Clarity now reflects its new 
  duration of 10 minutes.
- Fixed an issue where players with the Heart of the Wild talent were
  losing health each time they shifted to Bear Form or Dire Bear Form.
- Fixed an issue where players with the Furor talent were not staying 
  in combat mode when shifting to bear form and were losing the extra 
  rage generated.

Hunters
- Players are no longer able to animate emotes while using Feign Death.

Paladins
- Seal of Righteousness will now benefit properly from wizard oil and 
  other effects which give bonus damage against specific creature types.
- Fixed a bug where sometimes casting a spell immediately after a swing
  would prevent Seal of Command from triggering.

Priests
- Fixed an error where Priests in Spirit of Redemption form did not 
  benefit from plus to healing items.
- Touch of Weakness will now work again when you have Power Word:Shield
  active on yourself.

Warriors
- Fixed an issue where the Improved Charge talent was incorrectly 
 increasing the amount of rage generated by Charge.

Items
- Fixed an issue where the Undead female's ears clipped through the 
  item "Polar Helmet."
- Fixed several graphical anomalies with a female Troll wearing 
  Dreadnaught armor.
- Fixed an issue where the trinket "Spectral Essence"  was not working 
  inside of the castle in Caer Darrow. This was preventing players from
  seeing Magistrate Marduke and starting the quests he gives.

Professions
-Fixed an error that if you try to create a Soul Shard bag while you 
 have one equipped the materials used for the creation of the bag are 
 consumed and the bag is placed in the inventory queue.


Raids and Dungeons
- Fixed an error where Necro Knight Guardians in Naxxramas were 
  sometimes causing players to crash when they cast their Blink ability.
  
Battlegrounds
- Fixed an area within Warsong Gulch where a person could get stuck and
  was no longer targetable.
- Fixed an issue where sometimes a queued player can't enter a new 
  battleground.


User Interface
- Using /chatwho for the Looking for Group channel should no longer 
  disconnect players from the server.
- Fixed an issue where the Guild Recruitment channel option could not 
  be enabled.
- Fixed an issue where the use of "Show Target of Target" feature on a
  friendly target overlapped the fifth buff, making it difficult to see.
- Fixed an error where player colored debuff icons were not displaying 
  their correct color.
- Fixed an error where negative effects were not causing party player 
  portraits to pulse the effect color as indicated in the 1.11.0 patch notes.
  
 Mac
 - Fixed a bug in 3D sound positioning that would occur in various 
   situations, such as leveling up or standing above a body of water.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.11.1 (2006-06-28)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- Fixed a soft lock that some players were experiencing within the game
or while logging in.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.11.0 (2006-06-20)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Shadow of the Necropolis
  Floating above the Plaguelands, the necropolis known as Naxxramas 
  serves as the seat of one of the Lich King's most powerful officers, 
  the dreaded lich Kel'Thuzad. Horrors of the past and new terrors yet 
  to be unleashed are gathering inside the necropolis as the Lich 
  King's servants prepare their assault. The Scourge marches again...
  Naxxramas is the new 40-man raid dungeon that will present even the 
  most experienced and powerful players with an epic challenge. 

General
- The cost to unlearn talents will now decay over time. This cost will 
  be reduced by a rate of 5 gold per month to a minimum of 10 gold.
- Logging back in after a disconnect from the server has been greatly 
  improved, and players should now rarely receive the message "A 
  character with that name already exists."
- Fear: The calculations to determine if Fear effects should break due 
  to receiving damage have been changed. The old calculation used the 
  base damage of the ability. The new calculation uses the final amount 
  of damage dealt, after all modifiers. In addition, the chance for a 
  damage over time spell to break Fear is now significantly lower. Note 
  that Fear continues to be roughly three times as likely to break on 
  player targets as on non-player targets. In addition, Intimidating 
  Shout now follows that player versus non-player distinction, while 
  previously it did not.
- Periodic Healing: Spells which do periodic healing will now have 
  their strength determined at the moment they are cast. Changing the 
  amount of bonus healing you have during the duration of the periodic 
  spell will have no impact on how much it heals for.
- Reflection: Effects which cause reflection will no longer reflect 
  triggered effects separately from their base effects (e.g. Impact, 
  Improved Shadow Bolt, Aftermath, etc.)
- Spell and Item Auras with Charges: These auras will now correctly 
  remember their number of charges when you enter or leave an instance, 
  change continents, or log out.
- All controlled units will now be titled based on the creature type. 
  All beasts will be referred to as Pets, for example (no matter how 
  they are controlled). Previously, there were several inconsistencies.
- Beneficial spells and abilities that target multiple units will no 
  longer consume resources (i.e. mana, rage etc...) if they fail to 
  affect anyone.
- Chain targeted spells and abilities (e.g. Multi-shot, Cleave, Chain 
  Lightning) will no longer land if target cannot be seen by the caster 
  due to stealth or invisibility.
- Character model transparency has been modified to fix an issue where 
  PC's would appear to have a large hole in their model (be on the 
  lookout!).
- Optimization code known as "M2Faster" is now enabled by default. 
  M2Faster can improve performance in crowded scenes when "Vertex 
  Animation Shaders" is turned on. This function can be turned off by 
  setting M2Faster to "0" in the config.wtf.
   Reduces the unique number of vertex shader permutations that we will 
   choose to use in rendering
   Sorts the drawing of items in the scene a little differently to 
   reduce the number of times we re-program the vertex shader hardware. 

PVP
- In an effort to keep their armies better outfitted the Horde and 
  Alliance have both taken it upon themselves to update their available 
  rewards.
   An updated set of armor rewards have been added to vendors for Honor 
   ranks 7, 8, and 10.
   The armor rewards for Honor ranks 12 and 13 have been increased in 
   level and stat point allocation.
   New rank 14 weapons have been added! In order to give casters the 
   same diversity of selection that melee currently enjoy we have added 
   new caster items that are available to be purchased by Grand 
   Marshals and High Warlords. 

Battlegrounds
- Alterac Valley
   Most of the NPC guard units have been removed.
   Players now drop more quest items.
   Creatures that remain in Alterac Valley have had their hit points 
   reduced.
   The buff that is periodically cast by each faction's Captain has 
   been changed to a flat 20% hit point buff.
   Upgrading troops through armor scrap turn-ins will also now result 
   in your team's General enabling a periodic buff to your melee and 
   spell damage. 
- This buff scales from 10% at the Seasoned unit level, 20% at the 
  Veteran unit level, and 30% at the Champion unit level.
- Warsong Gulch - Epic leggings have been added to the Warsong Outrider 
  and Silverwing Sentinel supply officers for all armor types. These 
  items require Exalted status with their respective reputations. 

Druids
- Innervate: This spell is now a base ability for all Druids, trainable 
  at level 40. Any Druid who formerly had the Innervate talent now has 
  the Swiftmend talent instead.
- Nature's Grace: You will no longer consume this effect when casting a 
  spell which was made instant by Nature's Swiftness.
- Swiftmend: This new talent has been added to the Druid Restoration 
  tree, replacing Innervate as the 31 point ultimate talent. It 
  consumes a Rejuvenation or Regrowth aura to produce an instant heal.
- Enrage: Tooltip edited to clarify functionality. 

Hunters
- Counterattack (Survival Talent) - All ranks of this talent will now 
  share the same cooldown.
- Scorpid Poison: Duration slightly lengthened.
- Changed the way hunter pet family armor bonuses and penalties are 
  applied to allow the exact value from the Natural Armor talent to be
  applied correctly. This may result in a very slight loss of armor to 
  some pets (less than a third of a percent).
- Improved Scorpid Sting: The aura from this Sting will now be removed 
  (as intended) when a different Sting aura is placed on the victim. 

Mages
- Due to significant talent changes, mages will have all talent points 
  refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent spell 
  replacements have been significantly reduced.
- New ability added - Winter's Chill.
- Arcane Explosion is now instant cast and will no longer remove the
  Presence of Mind effect when used.
- Evocation - Is now available to all mages (via trainer), starting at
  level 20.
- Conjure Food now has a new rank (Rank 7) available in Stratholme.
- Frost Ward now has a new rank (Rank 5) available as item loot in 
  dungeons.
- Mana Shield - Damage taken will now be absorbed by other absorb 
  spells (e.g. Ice Barrier, Power Word: Shield) before being absorbed by 
  Mana Shield.
- Dampen Magic - Damage and healing reduction increased on ranks 3 
  through 5.
- Amplify Magic - Damage and healing bonus increased on ranks 2 
  through 4.
- Counterspell - Fixed a bug that made Counterspell unresistable.
- Improved Scorch - Duration of Fire Vulnerability increased to 30 
  seconds.
- Blast Wave: The bonus this spell receives from effects that increase 
  spell damage has been increased.
- Cold Snap: This talent will now always clear the cooldown for Frost 
  Ward, even if the cooldown was triggered by casting Fire Ward.
- Cone of Cold: The bonus this spell receives from effects that 
  increase spell damage has been increased.
- Fire Ward: The amount of damage absorbed by this ward was increased 
  substantially on all ranks.
- Frost Ward: The amount of damage absorbed by this ward was increased 
  substantially on all ranks.
- Arcane Power: This ability will no longer stack with Power Infusion. 
  If you gain both at the same time, Arcane Power will take precedence.
- Added a new level 60 quest available from Archmage Xylem in Azshara 
  for mages.
- Fire Ruby now has a sell value and can be disenchanted. 

Paladins
- Benediction: This talent will no longer incorrectly provide a double 
  discount to Seal of Justice.
- Blessing of Light: It is no longer possible for a target to appear to 
  have multiple ranks of Blessing of Light. These multiple auras had no 
  beneficial effect, merely causing confusion. Problems with targeting 
  the spell when the caster has Blessing of Light effect on them have 
  also been fixed.
- Divine Favor: It is no longer possible to cast this immediately after 
  a healing spell and "retroactively" make it a critical hit.
- Illumination: When several critical effect healing spells are cast 
  very quickly, you will now receive the correct mana refund for each 
  one.
- Judgement of Command: Now consumes a charge of the Zandalarian Hero 
  Charm. In addition, when this spell is resisted it will no longer 
  erroneously still do damage.
- Judgement of Righteousness: Now consumes a charge of the Zandalarian 
  Hero Charm.
- Seal of Command: Clarified tooltip.
- Vengeance: Seal of Command critical hits can now trigger this ability.
- Vindication: This effect will no longer be absorbed by Grounding Totem. 

Priests
- Lightwell - Casting time reduced. Lightwell object increased in size 
  to make it easier to click; relative click radius decreased slightly.
- Mind Control: If you cast Power Word: Shield while Mind Controlling a 
  target, the Recently Shielded aura will now appear on the correct 
  target instead of yourself.
- Spirit of Redemption: This spell has a number of fixes: Spirit of 
  Redemption form now has casting animations. Priests prematurely 
  leaving battlegrounds with this aura on will now receive the Deserter 
  debuff (as intended); Priests in Spirit of Redemption form at the 
  completion of a battleground will have the aura removed without 
  dying; It will now work correctly with the Darkmoon Card Twisting 
  Nether item, resurrecting you after Spirit of Redemption has run its 
  course; If you should die underwater the Spirit of Redemption will no 
  longer have a breath bar appear; the Warlock Drain Soul spell will 
  terminate producing 1 shard when the Priest switches to Spirit of 
  Redemption form; You will no longer have to wait 30 seconds for 
  graveyard resurrection upon your first death while using Spirit of 
  Redemption.
- Vampiric Embrace: This ability will no longer heal for damage caused
  when the target had no life remaining.
- Shadowguard: This Troll Priest racial spell now works with Vampiric 
  Embrace, Blackout, and Shadow Weaving. In addition, the damage from 
  Shadowguard will now consume charges of the Zandalarian Hero Charm's 
  Unstable Power aura. The range on Shadowguard has been extended to 
  hit anyone within vision range.

Rogues
- Detect Traps is now a passive skill.
- Pick Pocket: This ability will no longer trigger effects on your 
  target.
- Slice and Dice: This ability will no longer play its sound effect
  twice.
- Vanish: Canceling your Stealth aura while Vanish is running will now 
  cause Vanish to be canceled as well.
- Hemorrhage: Your damage over time effects will no longer consume 
  charges of Hemorrhage. 

Warlocks
- Shadow Ward now has a new rank (Rank 4) available as item loot in 
  dungeons. The amount of damage absorbed by this ward was increased 
  substantially on all ranks.
- Soul Link: If your pet is banished, Soul Link will stop functioning 
  until Banish wears off. In addition, Soul Link's tooltip has been 
  clarified to indicate it only works with your imp, voidwalker, 
  succubus, or felhunter.
- Curse of Agony: The damage from this spell will now continue even if 
  the caster dies or leaves the area.
- Emberstorm: This talent will now correctly increase the damage the 
  Warlock takes from Hellfire.
- Hellfire: Aftermath can now be triggered by this spell.
- Improved Shadow Bolt: Periodic damage spells and non-damaging spells 
  will no longer consume charges of Shadow Vulnerability.
- Shadowburn: If you cast Drain Soul while this aura is on the victim, 
  you will no longer receive two soul shards upon the victim's death.

Shaman
- Due to significant talent changes, Shaman will have all talent points
  refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent spell 
  replacements have been significantly reduced.
- Anticipation : Now increases chance to dodge by 1-5%.
- Following durations have been increased - Disease Cleansing Totem, 
  Fire Resistance Totem, Flametongue Totem, Frost Resistance Totem, 
  Grace of Air Totem - Ranks 1 and 2 increased, Nature Resistance 
  Totem, Poison Cleansing Totem, Stoneskin Totem, Strength of Earth 
  Totem - Ranks 1 through 4 increased, Tremor Totem, Windfury Totem, 
  Windwall Totem.
- The following mana costs have been reduced - Searing Totem, Mana 
  Spring Totem, Healing Stream Totem, Rockbiter, Frostbrand, 
  Flametongue and Windfury.
- Two-Handed Axes/Maces (Enhancement Talent) - Skill levels gained 
  with these two weapons will now be retained if you decide to unspend 
  this talent point and return to it later.
- Flame Shock - Damage over time portion of all ranks slightly 
  increased. Mana cost of ranks 3 through 5 decreased.
- Improved Reincarnation (Restoration Talent) - Fixed a bug where rank 
  1 of this talent was not decreasing the cooldown properly.
- Elemental Fury: Tooltip now indicates it increases the critical 
  damage for Searing Totem, Magma Totem, and Fire Nova Totem.
- Fire Nova Totem: This totem now receives increased healing from 
  effects that increase the Shaman's spell damage.
- Grounding Totem: This totem will no longer reflect the Mage talent 
  Combustion back onto the Mage.
- Healing Stream Totem: This totem now receives increased healing from 
  effects that increase the Shaman's healing.
- Lightning Bolt: Mana cost reduced approximately 17%.
- Lightning Shield: Some battleground power-up effects were consuming 
  charges of Lightning Shield. They no longer cause charges to be 
  consumed. The range on Lightning Shield has been extended to hit 
  anyone within vision range.
- Magma Totem: This totem now receives increased damage from effects 
  that increase the Shaman's spell damage.
- Searing Totem: This totem now receives increased damage from effects 
  that increase the Shaman's spell damage. 
- Elemental Mastery: If you have this effect and Clearcasting at the 
  same time, the Clearcasting effect will be consumed first.

Warriors
- Improved Bloodrage talent changed to generate additional rage when 
  the ability is used.
- Improved Revenge ranks evened out, resulting in an additional 5% for 
  the final rank. Chance to stun at each rank changed to 15/30/45%.
- Bloodrage - Fixed a bug that caused Bloodrage to cost twice the 
  intended health.
- Flurry: The tooltip for this talent has been adjusted to indicate it 
  only works on normal melee swings.
- Shield Slam: This ability has received a redesign. It now costs 20 
  rage to use and the damage it does is modified by your shield block 
  value. However, the base damage has been reduced. 
  It generates more threat per rage and more damage per rage than it 
  did previously.
- Sweeping Strikes: This spell has a number of fixes: When used in 
  conjunction with Execute and the second victim is below 20% health, 
  they will be hit with the full Execute amount. If the second victim 
  is not below 20% health, they will be hit with normal melee swing 
  damage; If the ability you are using does not deal damage, it will 
  not use a charge of Sweeping Strikes; The extra attack it generates 
  when used with Whirlwind now has the correct damage range; The 
  additional attacks generated by this ability will now properly take
  into account the armor of the second target. 

Items
- Key rings have been added to the game.
   Level 1-39 = 4 slots
   Level 40-49 = 8 slots
   Level 50-60 = 12 slots
- Permanent Dungeon Keys 
   Key to Searing Gorge
   Workshop Key
   The Scarlet Key
   Shadowforge Key
   Key to the City
   Skeleton Key
   Prison Cell Key
   Crescent Key
- Stack sizes have been updated:
   Stacks of 20
   Leather (Light, Medium, etc.)
   Cured Hides (Light, Medium, etc.)
   Shards (Small Brilliant, etc.)
   Enchanting Dusts (Strange, Illusion, etc.)
   Flash Powder
   Rogue Poisons (Instant, Crippling, etc.)
   Rogue Poison Reagents (Essence of Pain, Deathweed, etc.)
   
   Stacks of 10
   Hides (Light, Medium, etc.) 
- We have re-evaluated the mechanics of consumable items in the game 
  and concluded that these should work in a more intuitive manner. As 
  such, most items that can not be equipped with right click abilities 
  have been streamlined into one of three categories. Using an item of 
  a particular category will trigger a shared cooldown among all other 
  items in the same category. The categories break down as follows with
  category cooldowns as listed.
   Potions 2 minutes: This includes items such as Health Potion, Mana 
   Potion, Invisibility Potion and Mighty Rage Potion.
   Aggressive 1 minute: This includes items such as explosives, Really 
   Sticky Glue and Discombobulator Ray.
   Non-Aggresive 2 minutes: This includes items such as Healthstone, 
   Night Dragon's Breath, Whipper Root Tuber and Target Dummy. 
- Many items that can be equipped have had their cooldown category 
  removed and will be controlled exclusively by the item's self 
  cooldown. For example, the Gnomish Mind Control Cap should no longer 
  trigger the cooldown of the Talisman of Arathor.
- We have re-evaluated the class specific quest rewards for both 
  Zul'Gurub and Ahn'Qiraj Ruins. To bring them more in line with the 
  effort required to attain them we have upgraded the superior items to 
  epic quality.
- Updated the set bonus tool tip for The Elements and The Five Thunders 
  set to better explain it's function
- Antenna of Invigoration's damage type has been changed to Nature, it 
  was never intended to do physical damage. It will also now properly 
  display it's firing animation.
- Slave Master Blackheart will now drop loot appropriate of a rare NPC.
- The binding on Amulet of the Redeemed and Shroud of Arcane Mastery 
  have both now been changed to the intended Bind of Acquire.
- The Gnomish Mind Control Cap may now only be used on targets that are 
  not in combat.
- Deathdealer's Spaulders were unintentionally given higher stats than 
  they should have had for an item of their level, this has been 
  corrected.
- Uther's Strength is now properly flagged as Bind of Equip.
- The Tome of Divine Right has it's mana regen function changed to the 
  intended On Equip instead of On Use.
- Perdiot Circles have been properly renamed to Peridot Circles
- Low level boars/wolves drop boar meat and wolf meat much more 
  frequently now to facilitate cooking
- A number of items have had their stacking limits increased including 
  leather, enchanting dust/shards and rogue poisons/reagents among 
  others.
- Ashwood seeds can now be placed in herb bags.
- All food/drink can be eaten while silenced. Previously some food/
  drink could not be consumed when under the effect of a silence.
- The Mantle of the Timbermaw will now make the correct inventory 
  sounds.
- The Spirit of Zandalar will no longer persist through death.
- Ancient Hakkari Manslayer: This item will no longer trigger 
  erroneously on the strike which kills the target.
- Badge of the Swarmguard: The Insight of the Quiraji aura no longer 
  displays any duration. It is removed when The Badge of the Swarmguard 
  aura is removed.
- Black Grasp of the Destroyer: Losing targeting on your enemy will no 
  longer prevent you from gaining the mana when this item triggers its 
  effect.
- Blade of Eternal Darkness: This item can now correctly trigger its 
  effect from any harmful spell.
- Bloodfang Set Bonus: The damage effect from the 8-piece bonus on this 
  set will no longer trigger on (and break) Gouge.
- Bonfires: This stationary fires will no longer create two messages in 
  the combat log each time they deal damage.
- Clutch of Foresight: This item now functions when the user is 
  silenced.
- Darkmoon Fair Card Twisting Nether: If you are Soulstoned, Soulstone 
  will now always take priority over Twisting Nether's effect.
- Earthfury Set: When Healing Wave chains to additional targets from 
  this set bonus, it will no longer pick uninjured targets.
- Darkmoon Fair Card Blue Dragon: This item will no longer trigger from 
  using any ability which does not cost mana.
- Enigma Set: The Enigma's Answer effect will no longer trigger from 
  items.
- Health Regen Every 5 Seconds: Items with this bonus have been fixed 
  so that the health regeneration occurs during combat again.
- Holy Mightstone: The spell damage bonus from this item will no longer 
  increase the melee damage done against undead. The attack power bonus
  will still function as intended.
- Hurricane: This weapon was not dealing the listed frost damage. That
  listed frost damage has been replaced with a chance to trigger a 
  damaging frost effect.
- Implements of Unspoken Names: This set bonus had an error that made 
  it not properly affect base damage from pets. That error has been 
  corrected.
- Primal Hakkari Tokens: These items from Zul'Gurub now identify which 
  classes can use them in their item descriptions.
- Rejuvenation Potions: Any type of potion or consumable that grants 
  mana and healing will no longer be consumable unless either your 
  health or your mana are below maximum.
- Robes of Insight: This item's effect will no longer lose charges when 
  casting spells that have no mana cost.
- Rune of the Dawn: This trinket will no longer have any effect on 
  melee damage done to undead.
- Scarab Brooch: Holy Nova and healing from Holy Shock will now 
  properly trigger this item's ability.
- Shadowstrike: The cooldown on transforming this item is now always 60
  seconds.
- Stormshroud Set: The Lightning effect from this set will no longer 
  break your Gouge.
- Temporary Spell Damage Auras: (eg. Unstable Power, Power Infusion,
  etc.) All of the items which grant temporary spell damage bonuses are 
  now correctly set not to trigger off items, and to trigger off any 
  appropriate spell the player knows.
- The Elements Set: This set bonus will no longer trigger from 
  tradeskills.
- The Five Thunders Set: This set bonus will no longer trigger from 
  tradeskills.
- The Ten Storms Set: The Lighting Shield bonus placed on other players
  will function correctly again. In addition, it will no longer be 
  possible to gain more than one Lightning Shield effect from this set 
  bonus anymore.
- Totem of Life: Effect increased.
- Thunderstrike: The cooldown on transforming this item is now always 
  60 seconds.
- Trappings of The Unseen Path: This set bonus had an error that made 
  it not properly affect base damage from pets. That error has been 
  corrected.
- Troll's Blood Potions: These potions have been fixed that so that the 
  health regeneration occurs during combat again.
- Ultra-Flash Shadow Reflector: This item can now reflect the damage 
  caused by the Troll Priest racial spell Shadowguard.
- Zandalarian Hero Charm: The damage and healing on this item have been
  reduced by 30%. Instead of granting 35 damage and 70 healing per 
  charge, it now grants 25 damage and 50 healing per charge. Several 
  Paladin spells, Starshards, and Lightning Shield were not consuming 
  charges of this trinket. All those spells have been fixed. In 
  addition, totems which now benefit from increased damage and healing 
  will also consume charges (Healing Stream Totem, Searing Totem, Magma 
  Totem, and Fire Nova Totem)
- Eating and Drinking: You will no longer fall through a chair you are 
  sitting in if you eat or drink. 

Professions
- Fishing
   Schools of Fish have been spotted off the coast of Azshara
   Swarms of Eels have been spotted off the shores of Feralas, Tanaris, 
   Azshara and southern Stranglethorn.
   Bloated Fish will no longer be found in wreckage 
- Tailoring
   Dreamweave Circlet is now a Superior quality item
   Four new nature resist cloth armor recipes have been added to the 
   merchants at Cenarion Hold for those with high Cenarion Circle 
   reputation. 
- Leatherworking
   Three new nature resist leather armor recipes have been added to 
   the ghost leatherworker of Silithus for those with high Cenarion 
   Circle reputation. 
- Blacksmithing
   A number of weapons made with Fiery and Lava cores have had their 
   material requirements reduced. Black Amnesty, Blackfury, Ebon Hand, 
   Blackguard, Nightfall are the affected weapons.
   The Dark Iron Bracers and Fiery Chain Girdle have had the materials 
   required to make them reduced significantly.
   The Ebon Hand has had its attack speed decreased somewhat.
   The axesmith weapon Nightfall effect has been changed from -60 
   resistance to +15% spell damage taken. Also its speed has been 
   decreased somewhat.
   Three new nature resist plate recipes have been added to the 
   merchants at Cenarion Hold for those with high Cenarion Circle 
   reputation. 
- Mining
   Smelting Bronze, Silver and Iron will give increases to mining skill 
   for somewhat longer than they used to. 
- Enchanting
   The two-handed agility Enchanting recipe now provides a green glow 
   on those weapons. 
- Alchemy
   The Gift of Arthas now uses the elixir cooldown rather than the 
   potion cooldown. 
- Engineering
   Grenades and Mortars now are set to use the "Controlled Stun" 
   mechanic so using grenades in conjunction with other stuns (such as 
   Hammer of Justice) may give you diminishing returns.
   The materials used in sapper charges have become less stable and now 
   on occasion sapper charges will only affect the user lighting them 
   on fire for a period of time.
   A player is now much more likely to break out of the The Reckless 
   Charge effect of the Rocket Helmet early. This is to maintain 
   consistency with all other effects that take control away from a 
   player (Sheep, Stun, Hibernate, etc...). This change only affects 
   players, there is no change in using it against monsters.
   When a Paladin is replaced by their Evil Twin due to transporter 
   malfunction, they can no longer revert to their normal self using 
   divine shield.
   Tranquil Mechanical Yetis are no longer unique. 

Quests
- Light's Hope Chapel has been revamped and is now a fully functional 
  quest hub.
   A new mailbox has been added.
   The chapel is now flagged as an inn.
   A guard system is in place.
   New vendors have been added. 
- Dozens of new quests have been added to Light's Hope.
- A new LEGENDARY item quest has been added! Casters rejoice (and 
  druids too)!
- Aurel Goldleaf at Cenarion Hold in Silithus has a new quest.
- New quests available in Zul'Gurub and Light's Hope Chapel for head 
  and leg resistance enchantments.
- Several new tradeskill quests have been added to assist players in 
  obtaining frost resistance armor and items.
- Dire Maul Librams may now drop in any wing.
- Blood of the Black Dragon Champion is now a multi-drop quest item. 
  Everyone on their respective faction's quest will be able to loot 
  the blood. 

Reputations
- Cenarion Circle
   A new quest is available at Cenarion Hold for players who wish to 
   turn in Combat, Logistics and Tactical Badges for reputation.
   Encrypted Twilight Texts now stack to 250
   Combat Missions from the Field Duty questline in Silithus are now 
   received in batches of four (all hitting the same hive)
   Envelopes for all Field Duty Assignments are now non-unique
   Unsigned Field Duty Papers now need to be "prepared" by players by
   right-clicking on them. This action has a 3-minute cooldown.
   Completing the Field Duty quest has a reputation reward once again. 
- Bloodsail Buccaneers
   New repeatable "turn-in" quests have been added to each of the 
   goblin cities as a vehicle to raise the player's faction with them
   (while decreasing the player's Bloodsail Buccaneer faction) 
- Hydraxian Waterlords
   New revered option for Hydraxian Waterlords faction allows players 
   to receive a non-consumable version of Aqual Quintessence 

Raids and Dungeons
- Release timers have been be removed from instances. This includes 
  dungeons, battlegrounds, and raid instances.
- Instituted an anti-exploit measure on certain encounters (almost 
  entirely raid bosses). These encounters will prevent people from 
  zoning into the instance while that encounter is engaged. If you 
  attempt to zone into the instance while that encounter is engaged, 
  you will be resurrected at the outside entrance. We will be making 
  adjustments to the entrances to Molten Core and Blackwing Lair to 
  accommodate this change. Combat resurrections, soulstones, 
  reincarnate, etc. will still work fine. This is primarily to combat 
  graveyard rushing in instances.
- Zul'Gurub
   Class specific armor quests given by the Zandalarian trolls of 
   Yojamba Isle no longer require Bijous or coins for completion. Armor 
   quests now only require a Primal Hakkari piece and appropriate 
   faction with Zandalar.
   Class specific enchantments given by Zanza the Restless no longer 
   require Arcanum (Librams) from Dire Maul. The requirements have been 
   changed to items found within Zul'Gurub. Speak with Zanza the 
   Restless for more information.
   The various clan speakers (Bloodscalp Speaker, Sandfury Speaker, 
   etc) have had their hit points reduced considerably.
   Zandalarian Armor Replacement - Due to the changes made to the armor 
   rewards from the Paragons of Power quests, the trolls of Yojamba 
   Isle will now offer to replace pieces of armor that have been lost 
   or deleted.
   After careful consideration we have decided to add an additional 
   loot table to the High Priests of Zul'Gurub. Players should now see
   two items in addition to the tokens when slaying these bosses.
   When Hakkar gains the Berserk effect, Hakkar will now emote that he
   is berserk instead of emoting that he is enraged. 
- Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj
   Ossirian the Unscarred - There is a new crystal that will be visible
   before the encounter begins. Players can use this crystal just like 
   any other crystal in the encounter, but it cannot come back up 
   during the encounter.
   Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj Class Set Reward Replacement - Due to the changes
   made to the rewards from the Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj class set quests, 
   players can obtain replacements for lost or deleted quest rewards 
   from Warden Haro, Keyl Swiftclaw, and Windcaller Yessendra in 
   Cenarion Hold.
   The hitpoints of every creature in the General Rajaxx encounter has
   been lowered.
   Damage of General Rajaxx has been lowered.
   The wait time between waves in this encounter has been shortened. 
- Princess Huhuran's Acid Spit can no longer be redirected by Grounding 
  Totems.
- Arygos in the Temple of Ahn'Qiraj will now offer to teleport players 
  to the following places given the following conditions have been met:
   If the Twin Emperors have been defeated, Arygos will teleport 
   players to their lair.
   If Ouro has been defeated, Arygos will teleport players to the 
   chamber where the dragons are being held prisoner.
   Arygos will not teleport players that are in combat. 
- Emeriss, Lethon, Taerar, Ysondre - Some of their abilities will be 
  less predictable than before
- Tinkerer Gizlock can now throw Flash Bombs
- The Gordok Inner Door Key will now properly be destroyed if you are 
  ever outside the instance and alive. 

User Interface
- If the master looter assigns a unique item to a player that already 
  has that item, or any item to a player whose inventory is full, he 
  will get an error message and be able to reassign the loot
- Text that a raid leader sends to chat will now be displayed in a 
  different color and will have the [Raid Leader] label.
- There is now a new raid warning chat channel available to raid 
  leaders and assistants. Text that is sent to this channel will appear 
  in the center of the screen for all players in the raid. The channel 
  is called Raid Warning and text can be sent to it with "/rw"
- Raid leaders now have a Ready Check button on their raid interface. 
  This can also be sent with /readycheck from the chat line. A Ready 
  Check sends an "Are you ready?" window with Yes/No buttons to all 
  players in the raid. The raid leader will get feedback in 30 seconds 
  on all the players who were not ready or who did not respond.
- Players now have a Raid Info button on their raid interface that 
  functions the same way /raidinfo worked before. This function will 
  display a pane showing all of the raid instances that a player is 
  saved to, rather than displaying it to the chat window.
- Players in a party may now select an option that allows them to all 
  currently open instances.
   You only get the reset all instances option if you are a party 
   leader.
   The UI option appears if you are a party leader, you have one or 
   more instances open, and you are not currently in an instance.
   The UI option is a right-click option off of your own portrait (like 
   party loot options).
   You get a warning dialogue when you select this option asking if you 
   really want to reset all instances.
   If you select reset all instances, all non-raid instances will be 
   reset to their starting condition. 
- Auction Search Results.
   It should say "Searching for Items" when it is still seeking results.
   It should only say "No Items Found" when it has completed a search 
   and not gotten any hits from your criteria. 
- The Repair all button on NPC's that repair will now repair all of the
  items that you are carrying whether you have them equipped or not.
- Parties and Raids now can mark targets for their party/raid in the 
  gamefield. A party leader or raid leader/assistant can right-click the
  portrait of their target to select a symbol to associate with that 
  target. All players in the party/raid will see the selected symbol 
  over the head of the target as well as on the portrait of that target.
- Players can now turn on the "Target of Target" in the Raid and Party 
  section of the interface options. When this is turned on, anytime a 
  player is in a party or raid, it will show the portrait and health of 
  whatever your current target has targeted. You can click on that 
  portrait to target that thing directly or if you have the spell glove 
  up you can cast spells on the target of target without targeting it 
  directly.
- Bags that you are carrying now have a brown background when opened 
  and bags that are in your bank have a gray background when opened. 
  This will allow a player to more easily tell the difference between a 
  bag they are carrying and one that is in their bank.
- When reputation increases from one level to the next (Friendly to 
  Honored for instance) that text will be displayed to the chat log 
  instead of to the combat log.
- The Group Loot/Need before Greed dialogue will now show a golden 
  dragon border around Bind on Pickup items.
- The party leader can now reset a dungeon instance from the interface.
  If the party has recently been inside an instance but is now outside 
  of the instance, the party leader will have a right-click option from 
  their own portrait (where you select the loot UI preference) that is 
  "Reset all Instances". If this is selected all non raid instances will
  be reset for the party.
- Players now automatically have Keyrings. When a player first acquires
  a key, they will automatically acquire a keyring that can only hold 
  permanent dungeon keys. The size of the keyring will increase as the 
  player goes up in level up to 12 key slots at level 60.
- Additional action bars now have range indicators on them. If a button 
  in one of a players additional action bars has a range component, it 
  will display a red dot when a target is out of range.
- You can now target a player by clicking their name from the chat log
  and selecting the "Target" option.
- Spells that have a lasting effect on a player and have charges such 
  as the Shaman's Lightning Shield spell will now display how many 
  charges are left on spell icon.
- The icons of negative effects on that appear on the player now have 
  a color to indicate their type. Curses are purple, disease is yellow, 
  poison is green and magic is blue. In addition when a party member is 
  struck by one of these four types of negative effects, their portrait 
  will pulse the appropriate color for 30 seconds or until the effect 
  is removed.
- Using B at the bank will now toggle open/closed all of your bags and 
  all of your bank bags.
- When you are at the bank and your open bags would start to overlap 
  with your bank pane, your bags will scale down to a smaller size so
  you can access all of your bags and the bank at the same time.
- Many new Tips of the Day have been added.
- The interface event processing has been optimized while zoning.
- Your interface windows are no longer closed when you zone.
- You can now bind the mousewheel to button actions.
- You can now rebind the screenshot action, though the print screen 
  button cannot be reassigned
- When you kill a creature, the combat log will report "You have
  slain !"
- Reloading the UI requires user input.

World Environment
- New flight points can be found at Ratchet and Marshall's Refuge, 
  Un'Goro Crater.
- Flight paths added between:
   Morgan's Vigil - Lakeshire
   Revantusk Village - Light's Hope Chapel
   Aerie Peak - Chillwind Point
   Stonetalon Peak - Nijel's Point
   Cenarion Hold - Feathermoon Stronghold
   Cenarion Hold - Camp Mojache
   Cenarion Hold - Un'Goro Crater
   Gadgetzan - Un'Goro Crater
   Crossroads - Ratchet
   Theramore - Ratchet
   Ratchet - Talendris Point
   Moonglade - Talonbranch
   Splintertree - Valormok
   Hammerfall - Revantusk Village
   Camp Mojache - Freewind Post 
- Several flight paths adjusted for smoother transitions on linked 
  flights.
- Hive'Ashi Workers, Hive'Zora Tunnelers and Hive'Regal Burrowers have 
  been set to much quicker respawn times.
- Lord Skwol, Prince Skaldrenox, Baron Kazum and High Marshal Whirlaxis 
  in Silithus have had their balance reviewed. They should be much 
  closer in difficulty to one another and are tuned for a 20 person 
  raid group.
- Buru the Gorger's Creeping Plague has been slightly reduced
- Creatures that enrage at low health will no longer be enraged after 
  combat.
- The group pulls before General Drakkisath once again have linked agro.
- Fixed several typographical errors in various guard directions.
- A few more civilians, who previously assisted guards, no longer do so.
- Incendosaur should now be giving the correct amount of experience 
  when killed.
- Blackwater Deckhands no longer respawn instantly.
- Plague Swine now can be skinned.
- The plague trap crate in Stratholme will now correctly show up as 
  trapped when using detect trap.
- Skeletal Shadowcasters in Razorfen Downs no longer drop loot.
- Emperor Dagran Thaurissan will once again use his Avatar of Flame 
  ability.
- The Goblin Craftsman's Melt Ore ability will be properly modified by 
  Amplify and Dampen Magic.
- Slaughterhouse Protectors can no longer be feared. 

Mac
- "Maximized Windowed Mode" on a multiple display setup now leaves 
  extra displays available for desktop use.
- In windowed mode, the window position and size is now saved on exit.
- Command-clicking the zoom button in windowed mode will now toggle 
  amongst a few standard sizes.
- The desktop is no longer displayed when switching between full-screen 
  resolutions.
- Cinematic support on 10.4.x systems has been revised to use CoreVideo 
  for playback.
- Fixed a bug that could disrupt window sizes of other apps and desktop 
  icons when switching in and out of fullscreen mode.
- Keyboard event processing has been improved and is less likely to 
  drop keystrokes.
- The config.wtf variable "screenshotFormat" allows the user to choose 
  "png", "jpeg", or "tga" (Targa) format for screen shots.
- Fixed an issue in WoW where pasting in multi-line text from the 
  clipboard would result in one long line of text in the text view.
- Fixed an issue where international characters were not being copied 
  and pasted correctly in some situations.
- Conditional support for future OpenGL performance enhancements in 
  OS X. 
- Fixed a bug which could cause improper on-screen positioning of game 
  scene when using a mod such as CTWorldFrame, in conjunction with 
  fullscreen effects such as the glow & death effects.

Bug Fixes
- You no longer take durability damage if you die from a player-cast 
  debuff after zoning.
- You get a failure message if you fail to dispel debuffs on yourself.
- If Heroic Strike or Raptor Strike fails, your combat swing will do 
  normal damage.
- Fixed cursor tooltip positioning in widescreen video modes.
- You will be removed from combat when Bloodrage ends, unless you are 
  engaged with the enemy.
- The range for resurrection is the same whether the target player has 
  released or not.
- The Warlock Succubus will no longer auto-cast Seduction on a creature 
  with damage over time effects on them.
- Warlock minions are now properly labeled as minions when logging in.
- Pets can no longer agro creatures in rooms above or below them.
- Mind Vision now cancels when the target is not visible.
- Shapeshifted Druids now maintain proper voice over.
- Spell charges are properly retained after zoning.
- Heals from the priest's Vampiric Embrace will no longer keep the 
  priest in combat.
- Right-clicking on a lower rank Lightwell while a higher rank 
  Lightwell Renew is on will no longer expend a charge.
- Ghost icons now appear appropriately in Raid UI pullouts.
- Friendly creatures' pets no longer occasionally attack a player's pet.
- Area-of-effect spells will no longer occasionally damage creatures 
  with which you are not at war.
- The Warriors's ability Execute now dims properly when the target is 
  dead.
- If a Hunter dies just as a pet is tamed, the pet won't lose its 
  innate abilities.
- The Rogue's ability Distract now works properly against other players.
- Fixed a bug that caused abilities to lock up after being feared, 
  charmed, or polymorphed.
- Other players will properly see the changes when you toggle the Show 
  Helm or Show Cloak option.
- Fixed a bug where characters were able to exceed 100% of their normal 
  mana regeneration while casting. 

UI Scripting
- Frame XML Change - There is a new "clampToScreen" attribute, which 
  will prevent the frame from being dragged off the screen.
- Button XML Changes
   The button implementation has been changed from three fontstrings 
   to a single fontstring with three font objects. This is more 
   efficient, uses less memory, and reduces the complexity of defining
   a button. To support this, the existing NormalText, HighlightText, 
   and DisabledText elements have been deprecated (though they will 
   still work in 1.11 for backwards compatibility), and new elements 
   ButtonText, NormalFont, HighlightFont, and DisabledFont are defined 
   to replace them. 
- New API Functions
   SetCursor() can now be passed a 32x32 texture filename, as well as a
   cursor mode, or nil to reset the cursor.
   GetAddOnMetadata("addon", "field") - returns the value of the 
   following fields in the addon TOC file: Title, Notes, Author, 
   Version, and any field starting with X- 
- Region Script Object - Region is the base object type for all frames, 
  textures and fontstrings. Region is also the type of object returned 
  by the new Frame:GetTitleRegion() method. Region:GetObjectType() returns 
  "Region", and Region:IsObjectType("type") returns true if "type" is 
  "Region".
   All regions have the following member functions:
   type = Region:GetObjectType()
   isType = Region:IsObjectType("type")
   name = Region:GetName()
   frame = Region:GetParent()
   Region:SetParent(frame)
   x,y = Region:GetCenter()
   x = Region:GetLeft()
   x = Region:GetRight()
   y = Region:GetTop()
   y = Region:GetBottom()
   width = Region:GetWidth()
   Region:SetWidth(width)
   height = Region:GetHeight()
   Region:SetHeight(height)
   numPoints = Region:GetNumPoints()
   "point",relativeObject,"relativePoint",xOfs,yOfs = 
   Region:GetPoint(index)
   Region:SetPoint("point" [, LayoutFrame] [, "relativePoint"] 
   [, offsetX, offsetY])
   Region:SetAllPoints(LayoutFrame)
   Region:ClearAllPoints() 
- New Texture Methods
   ULx,ULy,LLx,LLy,URx,URy,LRx,LRy = Texture:GetTexCoord()
   isDesaturated = Texture:IsDesaturated() 
- New FontString Methods - nonSpaceWrap = FontString:CanNonSpaceWrap()
- New Frame Methods
   Frame:RegisterAllEvents() - For debugging purposes only!
   enabled = Frame:IsKeyboardEnabled()
   enabled = Frame:IsMouseEnabled()
   enabled = Frame:IsMouseWheelEnabled()
   region = Frame:CreateTitleRegion()
   region = Frame:GetTitleRegion()
   Frame:SetHitRectInsets(left, right, top, bottom)
   left, right, top, bottom = Frame:GetHitRectInsets()
   minWidth, minHeight = Frame:GetMinResize()
   maxWidth, maxHeight = Frame:GetMaxResize()
   backdropTable = Frame:GetBackdrop(backdropTable) - backdropTable 
   will be filled in and returned.
   r, g, b, a = Frame:GetBackdropColor()
   r, g, b, a = Frame:GetBackdropBorderColor()
   Frame:SetClampedToScreen(clamped)
   clamped = Frame:IsClampedToScreen() 
- New Button Methods
   Button:SetFontString(fontstring)
   texture = Button:GetNormalTexture()
   texture = Button:GetPushedTexture()
   texture = Button:GetDisabledTexture()
   texture = Button:GetHighlightTexture()
   r, g, b, a = Button:GetTextColor()
   r, g, b, a = Button:GetDisabledTextColor()
   r, g, b, a = Button:GetHighlightTextColor()
   Button:SetPushedTextOffset(x, y)
   x, y = Button:GetPushedTextOffset() 
- New CheckButton Methods
   texture = CheckButton:GetCheckedTexture()
   texture = CheckButton:GetDisabledCheckedTexture() 
- New EditBox Methods
   EditBox:SetAutoFocus(isAutofocus)
   isAutofocus = EditBox:IsAutoFocus()
   EditBox:SetMultiLine(isMultiline)
   isMultiline = EditBox:IsMultiLine()
   EditBox:SetNumeric(isNumeric)
   isNumeric = EditBox:IsNumeric()
   EditBox:SetPassword(isPassword)
   isPassword = EditBox:IsPassword()
   EditBox:SetBlinkSpeed(speed)
   speed = EditBox:GetBlinkSpeed()
   bytes = EditBox:GetMaxBytes()
   letters = EditBox:GetMaxLetters()
   l, r, t, b = EditBox:GetTextInsets() 
- New MessageFrame Methods
   MessageFrame:SetInsertMode("TOP" or "BOTTOM")
   mode = MessageFrame:GetInsertMode()
   MessageFrame:SetFading(fading)
   fading = MessageFrame:GetFading()
   MessageFrame:SetTimeVisible(seconds)
   seconds = MessageFrame:GetTimeVisible()
   MessageFrame:SetFadeDuration(seconds)
   seconds = MessageFrame:GetFadeDuration()
   MessageFrame:Clear() 
- New ScrollingMessageFrame Methods - isAtTop = ScrollingMessageFrame:
  AtTop()
- New SimpleHTML Methods - format = SimpleHTML:GetHyperlinkFormat()
- New Model Methods
   filename = Model:GetModel()
   r, g, b, a = Model:GetFogColor()
   value = Model:GetFogNear()
   value = Model:GetFogFar()
   enabled, omni, dirX,dirY,dirZ, ambIntensity[,ambR,ambG,ambB], 
   dirIntensity[,dirR,dirG,dirB] = Model:GetLight() 
- New Slider Methods - texture = Slider:GetThumbTexture()
- New ColorSelect Methods
   ColorSelect:SetColorWheelTexture(texture or nil)
   ColorSelect:SetColorValueTexture(texture or nil)
   ColorSelect:SetColorValueThumbTexture(texture or "texture" or nil)
   texture = ColorSelect:GetColorWheelTexture()
   texture = ColorSelect:GetColorWheelThumbTexture()
   texture = ColorSelect:GetColorValueTexture()
   texture = ColorSelect:GetColorValueThumbTexture() 
- New Minimap Methods
   MiniMap:SetArrowModel("file")
   MiniMap:SetPlayerModel("file") 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.10.2 (2006-05-02)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- Guild Recruitment channel functionality has been improved to be
  turned off for players already in guilds, and turned on for players 
  not in guilds by default.
- Fixed a bug which caused players to drop from combat after
  destroying a totem.
- Fixed a soft-lock bug that occurred under certain conditions when
  players were near ships, zeppelins, elevators, and the Deeprun Tram.

Mages
- Arcane Power: This aura will no longer stack with Power Infusion.
  If you use it, Arcane Power's aura will replace Power Infusion's 
  aura.
- Ignite should now proc correctly when landing a critical strike with 
  a fire spell. 

Paladins
- Holy Shock will now be guaranteed to crit when used offensively 
  while Divine Favor is active.
- Eye for an Eye will now properly produce its damage effect on the 
  attacking caster. 

Priests
- Inner Fire: Rank 3 will no longer have charges consumed when Power 
  Word: Shield is active.
- Power Infusion: This aura will no longer stack with Arcane Power. 
  If you attempt to cast it on someone with Arcane Power, the spell 
  will fail.
- Starshards: Ranks 1 and 2 inadvertently received too much bonus 
  from spell damage, while Rank 7 received no bonus from spell damage. Each of those ranks are now fixed to receive the correct bonus. 

Rogues
- Fixed a bug which prevented Vanish from working properly under 
  certain conditions.
- Seal Fate will now correctly provide a bonus combat point upon 
  landing a critical strike. 

Warlocks
- Improved Shadow Bolt will now proc properly after landing a critical 
  strike with Shadow Bolt. 

Warriors
- Rage generated from Unbridled Wrath and Shield Specialization will 
  now display properly in the combat log. 

Mac
- Fixed a client crash caused by weather effects when running OS 
  10.3.9. 

World Environment
- Players should no longer become dismounted while riding through 
  certain areas of the Undercity.
- Fixed a number of clipping issues and awkward turns discovered 
  throughout various chained flight paths.
- Certain creatures in Eastern Plaguelands weren't providing 
  reputation gain with the Argent Dawn. This has been fixed. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.10.1 (2006-04-11)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Druids
- Nature's Grace will now correctly trigger after every spell critical 
  strike.
- Fixed a bug that occasionally prevented the Omen of Clarity talent 
  from casting. 

Paladins
- Fixed a bug that occasionally prevented the Seal of Command talent 
  from casting. 

Warriors
- Fixed a bug where the Deep Wounds talent did not trigger "on next 
  melee" attacks when the player had initial aggro.

Items
- Thick Obsidian Breastplate: The effect from this item will now 
  properly trigger from the Warlock "Death Coil" spell.
- Jagged Obsidian Shield is now Bind on Equip. 

Professions
- Blacksmithing: Titanic Leggings Pattern will now drop slightly less 
  frequently. 

User Interface
- Fixed a bug that crashed the client when players in Moonkin, 
  Noggenfogger, Gordok Ogre Suit, Hallow's End form/costume attempted 
  to create a guild tabard.
- Fixed a bug that could crash the client when switching between 
  windowed and full screen mode, involving third-party UI using DXT 
  textures in .BLP files.
- Fixed a bug that caused an increase in UI Addon memory usage. Memory 
  usage has been reduced to previous levels.
- Fixed a bug that could potentially crash the client when certain 
  friend list notifications were received.
- In Simple Chat mode, the chat window and combat log should now again 
  be in alignment.
- Fixed a bug that caused the combat log window to interfere with side 
  action bars when opening large windows.
- The raid window will now properly come into focus on top of the raid 
  group pullout.
- The rest bonus indicator will now properly appear when a faction is 
  shown on the experience bar. 
- Fixed a bug that was causing an error message to appear when opening 
  the Alterac Valley battle map.
- Food, drink, and mount icons placed on action bars are now properly 
  grayed out when the player is in combat.

World Environment
- The Prophet Skeram is now properly affected by "Curse of Tongues" 
  and "Mind-Numbing Poison."
- Fixed a bug that occasionally permitted players to mount in indoor 
  areas.
- Fixed a bug that did not properly discount subsequent legs on 
  chained flight paths according to reputation level. 
  
Bug Fixes
- Fixed a bug that could potentially crash the client during a login 
  attempt if the available realm list changed around the same time.
- Fixed a bug that could potentially crash the client when certain 
  combinations of models and lighting were in effect.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.10.0 (2006-03-28)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

New High-Level Armor Sets!
  Adventurers of Azeroth can now quest to upgrade their previous Rare-
  quality Dungeon set to a new, higher-quality set, including epic gear!
  These tasks include all-new boss encounters, so prepare your finest
  group of dungeon-delvers and prepare for a challenge! 

Weather!
  Weather has been introduced in the following areas around Azeroth:
  - Elwynn Forest
  - Tirisfal Glades
  - Dun Morogh
  - Darkshore
  - Alterac Mountains
  - Stranglethorn Vale
  - Feralas
  - Un'Goro Crater
  - Tanaris
  - Winterspring
  - Ahn'Qiraj 
  We will be adding more weather to the world as time progresses; this
  is simply the beginning! 

High-Level Instance Changes
  Along with the new Armor Sets, the high-level 5-10 man dungeons have
  received some changes regarding loot. Many items have been improved
  in quality and use. In addition, several epic items, such as
  Headmaster's Charge and the Runeblade of Baron Rivendare, have had
  their drop rates significantly increased. In order to preserve the
  challenge of these dungeons, they have had their instance caps
  lowered. Stratholme, Scholomance, and Blackrock Depths now allow a
  maximum of five players inside, and Blackrock Spire allows a maximum
  of ten. 

Quest Experience to Gold Conversion at Level 60
  Previously, quest experience was wasted if one completed a quest at
  level 60. In this patch, any quests done at maximum level will have
  their experience reward converted to a healthy amount of gold, thus
  adding additional incentive to completing those quests in your log
  once you hit 60. 

New Final Destination Flight Paths!
  If you're making several jumps to get to your destination, you will
  now be able to choose that flight path from your initial Flight
  Master. The costs will remain the same, but you no longer need to
  manually click on each path. The UI has also been improved
  significantly. 

General
- All spells/abilities that remove existing effects (e.g. Dispel Magic,
  Cleanse, Remove Curse etc...) will now verify that there is an effect
  that can be removed before casting.
- You will no longer lose your current target when affected by a crowd
  control spell (e.g. Fear, Polymorph etc...).
- Various tooltips updated.
- Pets no longer modify your reputation if you kill them.
- You no longer teleport to your flight destination when hit by
  snowballs.
- Passive damage effects like Oil of Immolation will cause creatures to
  attack when they are hit.
- Turning off the At-War flag will no longer stop neutral guards from
  attacking you.
- Trying to spoof item links will disconnect you.
- Fixed error message when attempting to start melee combat while
  unable to attack.
- Channelled spells are cancelled when a rogue vanishes.
- Channelled spells are cancelled when you zone.
- Damage over time spells are no longer affected by changes in
  equipment after the cast.
- You are no longer kept in combat while on auto-attack at long range.
- Area effect spells and abilities will no longer consider totems as
  valid targets.
- Charm spells on charmed creatures are no longer available to the
  players that charm them.
- Fixed a bug which could cause lava flows to be improperly rendered or
  invisible.
- Traps can now be detected in the same way stealthed units can be
  detected.
- Stealth and Invisibility effects will now be canceled at the
  beginning of an action (spellcast, ability use etc...), rather than
  at the completion of the action.
- Reputation will no longer be gained if a pet kills a monster without
  aid.
- Added support for widescreen video resolutions.


PvP & Battlegrounds
- Alterac Valley
   Flavor items from player loot in Alterac Valley will now stack and
   can be sold for a small value. These are items like Documents from 
   Boomstick Imports, Worn Running Shoes, etc.
   Players in Alterac Valley will no longer drop Darkspear Troll Mojo, 
   Dwarf Spines, Forsaken Hearts, Human Bone Chips, Orc Teeth, etc. and
   the quests have been removed for these items.  Instead when a player
   is slain in Alterac Valley, any enemies that were in that player's
   threat list will gain 1 point of reputation with either the
   Frostwolf or Stormpike factions.
   Frostwolf and Stormpike faction will now be gained by killing
   players of the opposite faction. Reputation will no longer be split 
   up among the entire raid group.
   Tower Banners in Alterac Valley can no longer be used through walls.
   Korrak the Bloodrager and his band of trolls have packed up their
   bags and left Alterac Valley for greener pastures.
- Arathi Basin
   The Horde can no longer bypass the gate before the match officially
   begins.
- The reputation gain in Warsong Gulch and Arathi Basin has been
  significantly increased.
- Several Civilian NPCs that would assist the guards in attacking
  players no longer do so. 

Druids
- Healing Touch - Mana cost on all ranks reduced approximately 9%.
- Ravage - Can no longer be dodged, parried, or blocked.
- Cure Poison - Can no longer be cast while in Moonkin form.
- Gift of the Wild - Range and area of effect increased.
- Rip - Is now properly considered a Bleed effect.
- All shapeshift forms can now use equipped items.
- Nature's Swiftness - Now makes Rebirth and Soothe Animal spells
  instant cast.
- Bear Form and Dire Bear Form - It is no longer possible at very low
  health to die when shifting out of these forms.
- Pounce - This ability will no longer apply its bleed effect when the
  attack misses or is dodged.
- Some creature Mana Drain spells were previously able to mana drain
  druids in forms that do not display mana. That has been fixed.
- Previously, shifting into an animal form granted a one-second
  immunity to roots and snares. That has been changed to dispelling
  roots and snares.
- A new level 52 druid quest that takes place in Un'Goro crater has
  been added. 

Hunters
- Multi-Shot - This ability now has its attack power normalized the
  same as melee instant attacks. This means that the attack power
  contribution from all ranged weapons will be the same, no matter what
  their speed. All weapons will contribute attack power as if they were
  2.8 speed. Weapons slower than 2.8 speed will do slightly less damage
  than previously; weapons faster than 2.8 speed will do slightly more
  damage.
- Aimed Shot - This ability now has its attack power normalized the
  same as melee instant attacks. This means that the attack power
  contribution from all ranged weapons will be the same, no matter what
  their speed. All weapons will contribute attack power as if they were
  2.8 speed. Weapons slower than 2.8 speed will do slightly less damage
  than previously; weapons faster than 2.8 speed will do slightly more
  damage.
- Improved Aspect of the Hawk - The buff from this talent has had its
  duration increased from 8 seconds to 12 seconds. Note that the haste
  it provides does not begin until the second shot after the triggering
  shot. This change is to compensate for that delay.
- Hunter's Mark - This spell no longer triggers procs on the spell
  caster. This was being abused to land debuffs without getting on the
  creature's hate list.
- Claw and Bite - Pets using these abilities will now generate the
  correct amount of threat. Only ranks 7 and 8 of claw were generating
  the correct amount previously.
- Bestial Wrath - No longer generates threat for the Hunter.
- New high-level boars now exist in the Eastern Plaguelands and have a
  new rank 6 version of the pet ability: Charge.
- The special turtle ability Shell Shield has been improved to no
  longer root or pacify the turtle, but instead apply a 30% melee slow
  for the duration of the effect. Cooldown has been improved from 5
  minutes to 3 minutes.
- Freezing Traps are now affected by diminishing returns.
- Pet Frenzy - This effect will now trigger off any kind of critical
  hit by the pet.
- Fixed problem where a tamed pet would be lost if the hunter died as
  the tame completed.
- Distract no longer rotates hunters who have feigned death.
- Hunter traps now use the same rules as stealth rather than being
  invisible. Detect Trap has been changed to reflect this. 

Mages
- Improved Frost Ward - This ability now functions properly again.
- Improved Fire Ward - This ability now functions properly again.
- Detect Magic - This spell no longer triggers procs on the spell
  caster. This was being abused to land debuffs without getting on the
  creature's hate list.
- Ignite - This talent will now only trigger off fire damage generated 
  by mage spells. In addition, when a fire spell is reflected back at
  the caster, the caster will now correctly receive the Ignite damage.
- Arcane Brilliance - Range and area of effect increased.
- Impact - When a fire spell is reflected back at the caster, the
  caster will now correctly receive the Impact effect. 

Paladins
- Blessing of Light - Different ranks of this spell were stacking
  without causing additional effect. It was never intended for them to
  be able to stack, so they can no longer stack.
- Judgement of Justice - This judgement will now always hit.
- Righteous Fury - Righteous Fury will now always generate the correct
  amount of additional threat on all holy damage. There were some
  abilities, such as Retribution Aura, where this did not work
  correctly.
- Holy Shock - This ability now works with Divine Favor and
  Illumination.
- Holy Shield - Mana cost reduced approximately 15%. The effect now has
  a small bonus coefficient from spell damage items and effects.
- Eye for an Eye - This talent can now trigger while you are mounted.
- Blessing of Sacrifice - This Blessing can no longer be used to
  prevent the death of a target that is supposed to die for a spell
  effect (e.g.: Sacrifice, Demonic Sacrifice, Divine Intervention,
  Ritual of Doom).
- Seal of Command - Will now be able to proc when the Paladin is
  silenced.
- Improved Seal of Righteousness - Tooltip updated to reflect actual
  functionality. This talent increases Seal of Righteousness and
  Judgement of Righteousness by 3-15%.
- Lay on Hands - Range increased.
- Divine Intervention - Range increased.
- Holy Shield - Tooltip updated to reflect that damage caused by Holy
  Shield causes 20% additional threat. This has been active since 1.9,
  but was undocumented.
- All Greater Blessings now have increased range.
- Holy Shock - Mana cost reduced.
- Most creatures that were previously immune to Scorpid Sting are now
  also immune to the Paladin Talent Vindication.
- Fixed problem where occasionaly repeated casts of Consecration will
  not deal damage.
- If a paladin avoids damage with Divine Shield, Eye for an Eye will
  not react.
- Fixed stacking of paladin auras so they overlap, but only the best
  aura in a given category is in effect. 

Priests
- Due to significant talent changes, Priests will have all talent
  points refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent
  spell replacements have been significantly reduced.
- All racial priest spell replacements have had their training costs
  reduced.
- Prayer of Fortitude - Range and area of effect increased.
- Holy Fire - Is now available to all priests, starting at level 20.
- Mind Soothe - Is now instant cast.
- Shadowform - Now reduces all physical damage taken (melee and ranged),
  as the tooltip suggests.
- Feedback (Human) - Redesigned. The priest surrounds himself with
  anti-magic energy. Any successful spell cast against the priest will
  burn mana from the attacker and cause Shadow damage.
- Elune's Grace (Night Elf) - Now also increases chance to dodge.
  Ranged damage reduction increased, duration decreased, mana cost
  decreased, now has a cooldown.
- Shadowguard (Troll) - Is now instant cast. Updated tooltip to reflect
  that damage caused by Shadowguard causes no threat. This was
  previously the case, but was undocumented.
- Inner Fire - Redesigned. Now increases armor by a significant amount
  but has 20 charges. Each melee or ranged damage hit will remove a
  charge. Lasts 10 minutes, mana cost increased.
- Desperate Prayer (Dwarf/Human) - Cooldown reduced.
- Touch of Weakness (Undead) - Now a 10 min. buff on the caster that is
  triggered when they are struck in melee. The effect is otherwise the
  same. Mana cost decreased substantially.
- Hex of Weakness (Troll) - Now also applies a -20% healing modifier in
  addition to its normal effect. The healing debuff does not stack with
  the warrior's Mortal Strike ability, although the damage penalty now
  stacks with either Touch of Weakness or Curse of Weakness. Mana cost
  decreased substantially.
- Starshards (Night Elf) - This spell now works like Curse of Agony,
  with lower initial damage which increases as the duration continues.
  Mana cost dropped approximately 30% on all ranks. Ranks 1 and 2
  increased to 6 second duration. Damage increased approximately 17%.
- Lesser Heal - Mana cost dropped approximately 9%.
- Heal - Ranks 2, 3, and 4, cast time reduced to 3 seconds. Rank 1 mana
  cost dropped approximately 9%. Rank 2, 3, and 4 the healing amount
  has been reduced to generate the same amount of healing per cast time
  as before the cast time was reduced. Rank 2, 3, and 4, the mana cost
  was reduced to cost approximately 9% less mana per point of healing
  generated. The net effect on all ranks is that the healing per mana
  is 10% higher, the cast time is limited to 3 seconds, and the healing
  per second is unchanged. Note that spells with less than 3.5 second
  cast time will not receive the full bonus from plus healing items.
- Greater Heal - Cast time reduced to 3 seconds. Healing and Mana cost
  reduced so that the healing per second is unchanged, but the healing
  per mana is increased approximately 10%. Note that spells with less
  than 3.5 second cast time will not receive the full bonus from plus
  healing items.
- Vampiric Embrace - Damage resisted by the target will no longer be
  counted as damage caused for the purposes of the healing from this
  ability.
- Power Word: Shield - This spell will now get a small bonus from items
  and effects which increase your healing.
- Holy Nova - Self cooldown on this spell removed. Mana cost increased. 
- Devouring Plague - No longer keeps players in combat for its duration.

Rogues
- Slice and Dice - This ability can no longer be blocked, dodged, or
  parried, and cannot miss. If you attempt to use this ability when
  your target is dead, you will now receive an error message instead of
  displaying the spell animations.
- Sap - Lightning Shield will no longer break Stealth when the Sap is
  resisted.
- Remorseless Attacks - This ability will no longer trigger off killing
  creatures that do not award experience, or players that do not award
  honor.
- Distract - This ability will no longer trigger a Shaman's Lightning
  Shield (which caused the Rogue to lose stealth).
- Blade Flurry - The additional attacks generated by this ability will
  now properly take into account the armor of the second target.
- Blind - Now considered a ranged attack. It can no longer be dodged
  or parried.
- Creatures will no longer get one hit on a rogue before cheap shot
  takes effect. 

Shaman
- Lightning Shield - Bonfires and other environmental damage sources
  will no longer consume charges of the Lightning Shield. Warsong Gulch
  power-ups will also no longer consume the charges.
- Grounding Totem - This totem will no longer absorb the procs from:
  Frostguard, Annihilator, Bludgeon of the Grinning Dog, The Chief's
  Enforcer, The Judge's Gavel, Hammer of the Titans, Blackblade of
  Shahram, and Bonereaver's Edge. Tooltip updated to be more clear.
- Flurry - Your haste will now last only the intended next 3 swings.
- Healing Wave - Mana cost on all ranks reduced approximately 9%.
- Shaman can now use equipped items while in Ghost Wolf form.
- Shaman will no longer stop falling when they use a Sentry Totem. 

Warlocks
- Curse of Agony - The damage over time component of this curse will
  now only trigger periodic triggerable procs.
- Shadowburn - The debuff which produces the soul shard upon death is
  now visble to the player and has a 5 sec duration. The Warlock will
  no longer sometimes receive two soul shards upon the victim's death.
  Targets which do not grant experience or honor will no longer produce
  shards.
- Rain of Fire - This ability will correctly trigger Pyroclasm again.
- Master Demonologist - Pets that were crowd controlled at the moment 
  of summon prevented you from receiving the buff from this talent.
  That has been fixed.
- Curse of Doom - This curse can no longer be cast on players who are
  under the control of a creature.
- Shadowburn - This spell will no longer apply its debuff to the
  creature when the spell is resisted. Targets which do not grant
  experience or honor will no longer produce shards.
- Curse of Weakness - Mana cost decreased substantially.
- Curse of Recklessness - Mana cost decreased.
- Creatures immune to fear are now also properly immune to the fear
  effect of Death Coil.
- Suffering (Voidwalker) - Radius increased, tooltip updated.
- Death Coil - The horrify component no longer affects undead creatures
  (they've seen it all before.)
- Siphon Life - No longer keeps players in combat for its duration.
- Improved Shadow Bolt - When a fire spell is reflected back at the
  caster, the caster will now correctly receive the Shadow
  Vulnerability effect. 

Warriors
- Execute - This ability will now work with Sweeping Strikes again. If
  the second victim is below 20% health, they will be hit with the full
  Execute amount. If the second victim is not below 20% health, they
  will be hit with normal melee swing damage.
- Whirlwind - When this ability is used with Sweeping Strikes, it will
  burn only one charge of Sweeping Strikes and will generate only one
  additional attack.
- Flurry - Ranks 1 through 4 of this talent will now activate correctly
  again.
- Retaliation - This ability will now function correctly at full melee
  range.
- Intimidating Shout - The cowering in fear effect will no longer be
  applied when the target resists this shout. In addition, this shout
  will now affect a maximum of 5 targets.
- Flurry - Your haste will now last only the intended next 3 swings.
- Sweeping Strikes - The additional attacks generated by this ability
  will now properly take into account the armor of the second target. 

Items
- Relics have been introduced to the game. These are class specific
  items for Druids, Paladins, and Shaman which can be equipped in the
  ranged slot. Currently there are a handful for each class which can
  be found scattered throughout Blackrock Depths, Blackrock Spire, Dire
  Maul, Scholomance, Stratholme, and The Temple of Ahn'Qiraj. We hope
  that you enjoy the first round of available relics and we will
  continue to add more in future patches.
- Many items in Blackrock Depths, Stratholme, Scholomance, and
  Blackrock Spire have been re-evaluated and adjusted to make them more
  appealing. In addition several new items have been added to all of
  these instances.
- The following item sets have had their set bonuses adjusted: Valor,
  Magister's, Lightforge, Shadowcraft, Dreadmist, Devout, Wildheart,
  Beaststalker, and Elements.
- The locations of some of the waist, wrist, and hand slot pieces of
  the dungeon armor sets have been moved from their old creatures,
  including the Lightforge Gauntlets and the Magister's Boots.
  Additional creature types can also drop many of the previously
  difficult to obtain armor pieces.
- All of the hand slot items in the dungeon armor sets are now bind on
  equip. The Belt of Valor is also now bind on equip.
- Death's Head Vestment and Wolfrunner Shoes now have stats more
  appropriate for cloth wearers.
- The value of Health per 5 seconds items was re-evaluated and has been
  changed to be the same as Mana per 5 items. As a result most items
  that restore Health per 5 seconds will see an increase in
  effectiveness.
- Biznicks 247x127 Accurascope now only affects ranged attacks, and
  Elemental Sharpening Stones no longer will affect ranged weaponry. The
  schematic for the Accurascope will now drop once again in the Molten
  Core.
- Item use can no longer trigger the effect on the Five Thunders set or
  the Darkmoon Card: Blue Dragon trinket.
- The On Use ability on the Blade of Eternal Darkness has been changed
  to an On Equip triggered effect with a chance to occur on any damage
  spell.
- The Netherwind Regalia Set's instant cast spell bonus will no longer
  be consumed if the mage is not facing his or her target. In addition,
  the instant cast bonus will not be consumed if Presence of Mind is
  active; only Presence of Mind's effect will be consumed.
- The Lightning Shield bonus on the Ten Storms set will now work the
  same way as all other Lightning Shield auras, including increased
  damage from bonus spell damage effects.
- The tooltip on Thunderfury has been clarified to indicate that only
  the primary target will receive the slowing effect. In addition, the
  two effects have been broken down into two different debuffs to
  prevent incorrect information from appearing in the debuff tooltip
  for secondary targets (previously secondary targets were told they
  were slowed when they were not actually slowed).
- Wrath of Cenarius will now trigger off all damaging spells.
- The charges from the Zandalarian Hero Charm will now be consumed by
  melee and ranged abilities and spells which do non-physical damage.
  This includes: Hammer of Wrath, Judgement of Righteousness, Seal of
  Command, Judgement of Command, Volley, and Arcane Shot. The trinket
  will also now burn charges from each casting of a damage over time
  spell, heal over time spell, and area aura spells such as Blizzard
  and Consecration. Only one charge will be burned per area spell cast,
  rather than multiple charges per target hit as was previously the
  case.
- The Panther Hide Bag from High Priestess Arlokk will no longer take
  the place of other items. Instead, this item will now sometimes drop
  in addition to the normal loot.
- The following items were found to be more powerful than intended and
  have been tuned to be more in line with their level: Satyr's Bow,
  Inventor's Focal Sword, and Scepter of the Unholy.
- Green Whelp Armor no longer affects targets above level 50 and the
  sleep duration was reduced to 10 seconds.
- Many Recipes now have different icons. Recipe icons should correspond
  with the item color; a green-glowing scroll is a green recipe, and a
  blue-glowing scroll is a blue recipe, for example. As a reminder,
  white recipes can be purchased from a vendor somewhere in the world,
  so players should not pay too much for them at the Auction House.
- The Phantom Blade's effect will now prevent players from trying to
  become stealthed or invisible.
- The Luffa and Talisman of Ephemeral Power now have sell prices.
- The Crystal Force, Crystal Ward, and Oil of Immolation effects now
  have effect tooltips.
- The Royal Sceptre of Vek'lor has the proper spell hit chance instead
  of melee hit chance.
- The damage dealt by Demonic Rune and Dark Rune will no longer be
  affected by the user's increased spell damage items.
- The target of the Demon Forged Breastplate's effect no longer has to
  be in front of the wearer.
- The spell hit effect on the Felheart Robes is now properly listed as
  an On Equip effect.
- The Augural Shroud and Spidertank Oilrag now have stats more
  appropriate for cloth wearers.
- The Skeletal Guardian and Skeletal Berserker now drop loot
  appropriate to their non-elite status.
- Flavor items from the Stratholme postbox are now listed as poor
  quality.
- The Black Diamond and Pristine Black Diamond now stack to 20, the
  same as other gems.
- The tooltip of the Seeping Willow's effect has been reworded for
  clarity.
- The Chromatic Boots and Boots of the Fallen Hero have had their stats
  adjusted.
- The duration of the Fetish of the Sand Reaver's effect has been
  increased, but the effect lowered.
- Many trinkets will now trigger a cooldown equal to the duration of
  their effects that will prevent simultaneous use of more than one of
  these trinkets. The Trinkets affected include the Zandalarian Hero
  Charm, Zandalarian Hero Badge, Zandalarian Hero Medallion, and most
  all the other Trinkets available from Zul'Gurub, Earthstrike, the
  Talisman of Ephemeral Power, and the level 50 class quest trinkets
  such as the Devilsaur Eye.
- Rumsey Rum gained from fishing is no longer soulbound.
- The Innkeeper in Everlook now sells Winter Kimchi.
- The drop rate for Essence of Air has been increased.
- The Diablo Stone now has a unique icon.
- Fixed typos in the names of Last Month's Mutton and Last Year's
  Mutton.
- The Expose Weakness effect of the Hunter's Dragonstalker set can no
  longer be resisted as a magical spell.
- The Dawn Treaders, Timbermaw Brawlers and Might of the Timbermaw now
  make sounds when moved in your inventory.
- The Zulian Stone Axe has the proper inventory icon again.
- Clarified the Hand of Justice and Force of Will tooltips to better
  describe their functionalities.
- The Bonereaver's Edge's triggered effect has been changed. Instead of
  lowering your victim's armor, it will cause you to ignore a portion
  of your victim's armor. Its triggering rate was substantially
  increased as well as the magnitude of the effect. In addition, the
  item now has 16 stamina. 
- Players will no longer be stuck in zoomed vision if they zone while
  using the Ornate Spyglass.
- Abyssal Cloth Pants were missing their Spell Critical bonus; this has
  been corrected.

Professions
- Players that unlearn Engineering or Leatherworking may now
  respecialize if they decide to relearn the professions.
- Blacksmithing
   The Statues in Ahn'Qiraj now drop chunks of obsidian that can be
   crafted by blacksmiths in to various types of armor. The Recipes
   come from both Cenarion Circle vendors as well as drops and other
   sources.
   The materials required to make the Gloves of the Dawn have been
   reduced.
   New high level World Drop epic recipes have been added for
   Hammersmiths, Swordsmiths and Armorsmiths. 
- Engineering
   The Alarm-o-Bot now pulses its detection every 7 seconds rather than
   every 30 seconds.
   Fused Wiring now stacks to 5.
   Rocket Clusters now require Solid Blasting Powder and Large Rocket
   Clusters require Dense Blasting Powder.
   Target Dummies now have a much shorter duration, but have
   significantly more health. They also have a general 3 minute
   cooldown on their use.
   The Goblin Mortar's maximum range has been increased from 20 yards
   to 40 yards. 
- Tailoring
   Mooncloth Bag recipe only requires a single mooncloth to make.
   Tailors can now make bags with up to 24 slots that can only hold
   enchanting materials or herbs. The recipes can mostly be found on
   vendors that sell enchanting materials or on vendors in Silithus. 
- Enchanting
   A new enchanting recipe that adds +25 Agility to two-handed weapons
   has been added to the Timbermaw Furbolgs that requires Friendly
   reputation.
   Enchant Gloves - Healing only requires a single Righteous Orb. 
- Leatherworking
   Many of the beast bosses in the game will now be skinnable for
   significantly more leather.
   There is now a fourth item in the Stormshroud Armor set: Stormshroud
   Gloves.
   The recipe for the Heavy Scorpid Vest is no longer soulbound.
   The Dreamscale Breastplate is now Bind on Equip.
   Red Dragonscales drop significantly more often off the dragonkin in
   the Wetlands.
   Golden Mantle of the Dawn no longer requires Righteous Orbs.
   The Dreamscale Breastplate only requires 6 Dreamscales instead of 12
   to make. 
- Alchemy
   There is now an Elixir of Greater Firepower recipe in the world. The
   Dark Iron Dwarves of the Searing Gorge hold the secret. 

Quests
- The Hexxer's Head is no longer a requirement for the Collection of
  Heads quest in Zul'Gurub.
- Realms that have Ahn'Qiraj open have access to a new questline at
  Cenarion Hold.
- The Deathly Usher in the Blasted Lands will now transport a whole
  group up to the Rise of the Defiler as long as one person is on the
  quest 'You Are Rakh'likh, Demon.'
- Fragments for the quest Uncovering the Past in the Wetlands are now
  easier to find.
- Magma Elementals in the Searing Gorge can now drop the Heart of Flame
  quest item.
- Dire Maul library book quests are no longer repeatable.
- Drop frequencies for Tactical Task Briefing V and Logistics Task
  Briefing XI have been improved considerably. These were needed for
  the Mark of Cenarius and the Mark of Remulos, their drop rates are
  now comparable to the other task briefings.  

Raids & Dungeons
- The Four Green Dragons will now spawn as originally intended. They
  should all now spawn at the same time everytime.
- Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj
   Ayamiss the Hunter now flies down from the air much earlier.
   Lieutenant General Andorov will now offer supplies if kept alive
   through the battle.
   Certain monsters have had their hitpoints reduced.
   Qiraji Scorpions and Qiraji Scarabs now yield a small amount of
   experience. 
- Temple of Ahn'Qiraj
   The Plague effect from Anubisath Defenders and Anubisath Sentinel's
   is no longer amplified by +damage gear.
   Spawn of Fankriss will now enrage if not dealt with in a timely
   manner.
   Fixed a bug that was causing Battleguard Sartura's low-health enrage
   to have very little effect.
   Removed the stacking acid from the Flesh Tentacles in the C'thun
   encounter.
   Digestive Acid now increases its effect over time during the C'thun
   encounter.
   Fixed a bug that could allow for the Digestive Acid debuff to be
   removed.
   Lowered the amount of knockback dealt by Giant Tentacles.
   Tentacles should no longer spawn on players who have just been
   knocked back by a previous tentacle. 
- Molten Core
   You no longer charge into the lava when charging Ragnaros.
- Dire Maul
   Magister Kalendris has been moved in to the middle of the hall.
   Guard Slip'kik's patrol path has been altered.
   Tendris Warpwood will now call upon any protectors still alive to
   aid him. 
- Blackrock Spire
   Some monsters were removed to reduce the time it takes to run the
   dungeon.
   Mother's Milk off Mother Smolderweb will now only affect players.
   Spire Spiderlings now have fewer hitpoints. 
- Blackrock Depths
   Lord Roccor is no longer a rare spawn. His patrol path was altered
   accordingly.
   Pick lock and Seaforium now work on the Shadowforge Gates Mechanism.
   The difficulty of the Lord Incendius and Ambassador Flamelash
   encounters has been increased.
   Marshal Windsor will now open the door to the supply room during the
   escort 'Jail Break,' instead of walking through it. 
- Stratholme
   Some of the undead that invade the Scarlet Bastion after Balnazzar's
   death have been removed to make exiting faster.
   Added new crates to Stratholme that only hold Stratholme Holy Water.
   The old crates still exist.
-Scholomance
   Skin of Shadow now has a chance to drop from creatures in the
   Scholomance. 
- Zul'Farrak
   The summoned zombies will now attack any player in the instance
   after their grave has been disturbed. 

User Interface
- The Reputation UI has gotten a significant overhaul:
   You can now click on a faction in the reputation pane to get
   additional details/options.
   You can display one of your reputations on your main display where
   your experience bar currently displays. If you are not level 60 it
   displays two thin bars - experience and reputation.
   You can mark any of your factions as "Inactive". These factions will
   be moved to the bottom of your reputation pane in a callout that is
   closed by default. 
- Your experience bar will no longer display when you are level 60. The
  primary benefit of this relates to the improvements to the Reputation
  systems.
- Shift-R will now reply to the last person that you sent a tell to
  rather than the last person who sent a tell to you.
- Purchasing Bank Slots now has a confirmation dialogue to prevent
  accidental purchase.
- All Set bonuses for a set now display even if you do not have all the
  required items for that set. The set bonuses that you do not have yet
  display in gray and also show in parenthesis the number of pieces of
  the set required for that bonus.
- You can now mouseover items in your mailbox and get item mouseover
  information without opening the mail.
- The raid option to "Show Castable Buffs" should now work correctly.
- If a /who search brings up few enough names that those names are
  displayed to the chat interface, those names will be right clickable
  for invite/whisper purposes.
- Fixed a bug that would prevent health and mana display in group or
  raid from updating properly.
- Fixed problem where character specific macros could be overwritten
  by account-wide macros.
- You are no longer able to modify the Blizzard XML and Lua files.
- Addons and macros may not call or hook functions that initiate
  movement.
- Addons can no longer use RegisterForSave().
- SpellStopCasting() requires input to work, like spell casting does.
- Toggling autocast for pet actions requires input to work, like
  commanding your pet does.
- New API Functions
   frame = CreateFrame("frameType" [,"name"] [, parent]) – Dynamically
   create a new frame of the specified type
   font = CreateFont("name") -- Dynamically create a font object
   num = GetNumFrames() -- Get the current number of frames created
   nextFrame = EnumerateFrames(currentFrame) -- Get the Frame which
   follows currentFrame (in internal order, use currentFrame=nil for
   the first one)
   seterrorhandler(errfunc) -- Sets a new script error handler (a
   function taking error message as its argument)
   errfunc = geterrorhandler()
   version, buildnum, builddate = GetBuildInfo()
   MouselookStart()
   MouselookStop()
   mouselook = IsMouselooking() 
- New Object Methods (inherited by all fonts, frames, textures and
  fontstrings)
   type = Object:GetObjectType()
   isType = Object:IsObjectType("type") 
- New Font Object
   name = Font:GetName()
   a = Font:GetAlpha()
   Font:SetAlpha(a)
   font = Font:GetFontObject() -- Get the 'parent' of the Font.
   Font:SetFontObject(font or nil) -- Set the 'parent' of the Font.
   Font:CopyFontObject(font) -- Set this Font's attributes to be the
   same as those of font.
   fontFile, fontHeight, flags = Font:GetFont()
   wasFound = Font:SetFont("fontFile", fontHeight [, flags]) – Returns
   1 if specified font was valid, and nil if it was not (the change
   will not occur).
   r,g,b,a = Font:GetTextColor()
   Font:SetTextColor(r, g, b [, a])
   r,g,b,a = Font:GetShadowColor()
   Font:SetShadowColor(r, g, b [, a])
   x,y = Font:GetShadowOffset()
   Font:SetShadowOffset(x, y)
   Font:SetSpacing(spacing)
   spacing = Font:GetSpacing()
   Font:SetJustifyH("LEFT" or "CENTER" or "RIGHT")
   justifyh = Font:GetJustifyH()
   Font:SetJustifyV("TOP" or "MIDDLE" or "BOTTOM")
   justifyv = Font:GetJustifyV() 
- New LayoutFrame Methods (inherited by all frames, textures and
  fontstrings)
   x,y = LayoutFrame:GetCenter()
   x = LayoutFrame:GetLeft()
   x = LayoutFrame:GetRight()
   y = LayoutFrame:GetTop()
   y = LayoutFrame:GetBottom()
   width = LayoutFrame:GetWidth()
   LayoutFrame:SetWidth(width)
   height = LayoutFrame:GetHeight()
   LayoutFrame:SetHeight(height)
   numPoints = LayoutFrame:GetNumPoints()
   "point",relativeObject,"relativePoint",xOfs,yOfs =
   LayoutFrame:GetPoint(index)
   LayoutFrame:SetPoint("point" [, LayoutFrame] [, "relativePoint"]
   [, offsetX, offsetY])
   LayoutFrame:SetAllPoints(LayoutFrame)
   LayoutFrame:ClearAllPoints() 
- New Texture Methods
   parent = Texture:GetParent()
   Texture:SetParent(parent or "parent")
   layer = Texture:GetDrawLayer()
   Texture:SetDrawLayer("layer")
   blendMode = Texture:GetBlendMode()
   Texture:SetBlendMode("blendMode") -- blendMode is one of "DISABLE",
   "BLEND", "ALPHAKEY", "ADD", "MOD"
   r,g,b,a = Texture:GetVertexColor()
   isFound = Texture:SetTexture("path") -- Now returns 1 if the path
   was found, nil if not. 
- New FontString Methods
   parent = FontString:GetParent()
   FontString:SetParent(parent or "parent")
   layer = FontString:GetDrawLayer()
   FontString:SetDrawLayer("layer")
   font = FontString:GetFontObject()
   FontString:SetFontObject(font or nil)
   fontFile, fontHeight, flags = FontString:GetFont()
   wasFound = FontString:SetFont("fontFile", fontHeight [, flags])
   -- Returns 1 if specified font was valid, and nil if it was not
  (the change will not occur).
  a = FontString:GetAlpha()
  r,g,b,a = FontString:GetTextColor()
  FontString:SetTextColor(r, g, b [, a])
  r,g,b,a = FontString:GetShadowColor()
  FontString:SetShadowColor(r, g, b [, a])
  x,y = FontString:GetShadowOffset()
  FontString:SetShadowOffset(x, y)
  spacing = FontString:GetSpacing()
  FontString:SetSpacing(spacing)
  justifyh = Font:GetJustifyH()
  FontString:SetJustifyH("LEFT" or "CENTER" or "RIGHT")
  justfiyv = FontString:GetJustifyV()
  FontString:SetJustifyV("TOP" or "MIDDLE" or "BOTTOM") 
- New methods for all Frames
   texture = Frame:CreateTexture(["name"] [,"layer"]) -- Create a new
   Texture object as a child of a frame.
   fontstring = Frame:CreateFontString(["name"] [,"layer"]) – Create
   a new FontString object as a child of a frame.
   numRegions = Frame:GetNumRegions() -- Return the number of regions
   (Textures/FontStrings) attached to a frame.
   a, b, c, ... = Frame:GetRegions() -- Return the regions attached to
   a frame. 
- New methods for MessageFrames, ScrollingMessageFrames, and EditBoxes
   font = Frame:GetFontObject()
   Frame:SetFontObject(font or nil)
   fontFile, fontHeight, flags = Frame:GetFont()
   wasFound = Frame:SetFont("fontFile", fontHeight [, flags]) –
   Returns true if specified font was valid, and nil if it was not (the
   change will not occur).
   r,g,b,a = Frame:GetTextColor()
   Frame:SetTextColor(r, g, b [, a])
   r,g,b,a = Frame:GetShadowColor()
   Frame:SetShadowColor(r, g, b [, a])
   x,y = Frame:GetShadowOffset()
   Frame:SetShadowOffset(x, y)
   spacing = Frame:GetSpacing()
   Frame:SetSpacing(spacing)
   justifyh = Font:GetJustifyH()
   Frame:SetJustifyH("LEFT" or "CENTER" or "RIGHT")
   justfiyv = Frame:GetJustifyV()
   Frame:SetJustifyV("TOP" or "MIDDLE" or "BOTTOM") 
- New SimpleHTML Methods ("header" is "H1" "H2" or "H3")
   font = SimpleHTML:GetFontObject(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetFontObject(["header",] font or nil)
   fontFile, fontHeight, flags = SimpleHTML:GetFont(["header"])
   wasFound = SimpleHTML:SetFont(["header",] "fontFile", fontHeight
   [, flags]) -- Returns true if specified font was valid, and nil if
   it was not (the change will not occur).
   r,g,b,a = SimpleHTML:GetTextColor(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetTextColor(["header",] r, g, b [, a])
   r,g,b,a = SimpleHTML:GetShadowColor(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetShadowColor(["header",] r, g, b [, a])
   x,y = SimpleHTML:GetShadowOffset(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetShadowOffset(["header",] x, y)
   spacing = SimpleHTML:GetSpacing(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetSpacing(["header",] spacing)
   justifyh = SimpleHTML:GetJustifyH(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetJustifyH(["header",] "LEFT" or "CENTER" or "RIGHT")
   justfiyv = SimpleHTML:GetJustifyV(["header"])
   SimpleHTML:SetJustifyV(["header",] "TOP" or "MIDDLE" or "BOTTOM") 
- New Button Methods
   font = Button:GetTextFontObject()
   Button:SetTextFontObject(font or nil)
   font = Button:GetDisabledFontObject()
   Button:SetDisabledFontObject(font or nil)
   font = Button:GetHighlightFontObject()
   Button:SetHighlightFontObject(font or nil)
   Button:SetNormalTexture("texturePath" or TextureObject) – Added
   Texture Object option.
   Button:SetPushedTexture("texturePath" or TextureObject) – Added
   Texture Object option.
   Button:SetDisabledTexture("texturePath" or TextureObject) – Added
   Texture Object option.
   Button:SetHighlightTexture("texturePath" or TextureObject) – Added
   Texture Object option. 
- New Slider Methods
   orientation = Slider:GetOrientation() -- Return slider orientation
   Slider:SetOrientation("orientation") -- Set slider orientation
   ("HORIZONTAL","VERTICAL") 
- New StatusBar Methods
   orientation = StatusBar:GetOrientation() -- Return bar orientation
   StatusBar:SetOrientation("orientation") -- Set bar orientation 
   ("HORIZONTAL","VERTICAL")
   filename = StatusBar:GetStatusBarTexture()
   r, g, b, a = StatusBar:GetStatusBarColor() 
- New ScrollingMessageFrame Methods
   ScrollingMessageFrame:SetFading(isFading) -- Renamed from 
   ScrollingMessageFrame:EnableFading()
   isFading = ScrollingMessageFrame:GetFading()
   duration = ScrollingMessageFrame:GetFadeDuration() -- Get time it
   takes for lines to fade once they start fading.
   visTime = ScrollingMessageFrame:GetTimeVisible() -- Get time it
   takes before a line starts fading. 
- New Minimap Methods
   Minimap:SetMaskTexture("file") -- Set the texture for the minimap
   mask
   Minimap:SetIconTexture("file") -- Set the texture for the minimap
   POI icons
   Minimap:SetBlipTexture("file") -- Set the texture for the minimap
   tracking blips  

World Environment
- New flight paths have been added between:
   Ironforge and Light's Hope Chapel
   Stonetalon Peak and Astranaar
   Talendris Point and Everlook
   Theramore and Talendris Point
   Sepulcher and Tarren Mill 
- Stable master added to Grom'gol.
- Arcane Aberrations will no longer attack hunters who cast Flare
  nearby.
- Incendosaurs in the Searing Gorge should now spawn much faster.
- Riding Instructors Velma Warnam and Xar'Ti will now let Tauren know
  in advance that they cannot be taught to ride Skeletal Mounts and
  Raptors.

Mac
- Fixed a bug which could cause the sky to be improperly rendered when
  the UI overlay was shut off in full screen.
- Improved the Mac sound engine to handle "multiple simultaneous buff"
  events without excessive audible distortion, such as the Warchief's
  Blessing in Orgrimmar.
- Fixed a bug which could cause doodads in the Dwarven District to be
  incorrectly fogged.
- Fixed a bug which could cause terrain to be improperly rendered if
  "Enable All Shader Effects" was on but "Terrain Highlights" was off.
- Fixed a bug which would sometimes cause a selection circle under a
  character to be drawn as a double image.
- Improved smoothness of mouse input for camera turns ("mouselook").

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.9.4 (2006-02-09)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- A new Guild Recruitment channel has been added.  This channel will be
  on by default.
- Fixed a bug that could cause players to appear to be porting around
  in a small area.

Mac
- Addresses a timing accuracy issue on Intel-Mac systems that affected
  the perceived speed and/or progress of transports and other moving
  objects in the world; PowerPC-Mac systems were not affected.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.9.3 (2006-02-07)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Love is in the Air!
  Are you looking for love?  All of Azeroth soon will be!  As winter
  draws to a close the races are starting to seek that special someone.
  Be on the lookout for amorous individuals!  Put on that special
  perfume or cologne, express your love, and receive gifts in return! 
  Prepare yourself... love will soon be in the air!


Mac
- Added native support for Intel-powered Macs such as the iMac (Core
  Duo) and MacBook Pro. World of Warcraft is now a Universal
  Application.  Be advised that the minimum supported MacOS X version
  has been changed to 10.3.9; World of Warcraft version 1.9.3 and later
  will not launch on older revisions of MacOS X.


Battlegrounds
- The default graveyards in Alterac Valley for each side were moved
  further up the tunnels away from the battlegroud exit. This should
  prevent accidentally leaving the battleground.


Paladin
- Eye for an Eye - This talent will now still do damage when the
  paladin is stunned. In addition, if the critical hit kills the
  paladin, damage will still be dealt to the spellcaster.
- Greater Blessing of Sanctuary - Paladins with Righteous Fury will now
  generate extra threat correctly when this Blessing procs.


Rogue
- Deadly Poison V - The charges were inadvertently not increased with
  the new rank of the ability. Increased from 105 to 120 charges.
- Slice and Dice - This ability should no longer miss.


Warrior
- Shield Block - This aura will now correctly be removed when the
  charges are all consumed. However, it is still possible when fighting
  multiple opponents to get extra blocks due to technical restrictions.


Items
- Arcanist Gloves were not receiving the intended spell damage bonus;
  this has been corrected.
- The Stamina and Intellect on Kezan's Unstoppable Taint were
  inadvertently flipped; this has been corrected.
- The Enigma's Answer and Stormcaller's Wrath effects now have tooltips.
- The mana regeneration effect from food no longer causes threat.
- Quicksand Waders are now Bind on Pickup.
- The Slime-coated Leggings now have their proper nature resistance.
- Prophetic Aura, Mageblood Potion, Wizard Oils, and the Mana
  Regeneration bracer enchant no longer generate threat for the wearer,
  and should also provide the increased mana regeneration on normal
  ticks instead of every 5 seconds.
- The Ancient Hakkari Manslayer has the proper icon again.


Professions
- The Engineering schematic for the Tranquil Mechanical Yeti now
  requires a Cured Rugged Hide rather than Ice Thistle E'ko so that
  both Horde and Alliance Engineers can make the recipe.
- Stormshroud Gloves are now Bind on Equip.


Quests & Reputation
- Grammar fixed for gossip associated with the quest "Trial of the Sea
  Lion" in Moonglade.
- Fixed a bug with the quest "Glyphed Oaken Branch" that was having the
  quest become available sooner than it should have.
- The reputation modifier of Squire Leoren Mal'derath has been reduced.
- Zandalar Tribe reputation rewards for killing mobs in Zul’Gurub have
  been increased.
- Winterfall Spirit Beads and Deadwood Headdress Feathers now stack in
  quantities of 250.


Raid & Dungeons
- Various bugs have been rectified in the Ahn'Qiraj dungeons.
  Molten Core
  * It should now be very difficult to remain out of combat while
    fighting the bosses in Molten Core.
  Zul'Gurub
  * A small number of spawns have been removed from Zul'Gurub to allow 
    for a slightly faster clearing time.
  * Increased cooldown on Poison Bolt Volley of High Priestess Mar'li.
  * Slightly reduced the melee damage of High Priestess Mar'li.
  * The vengance effect gained by the death of the raptor Ohgan during
    the Bloodlord Mandokir fight has been increased in power.
  * Reduced the overall damage of High Priest Thekal.
  * Slowed the rate at which the panthers spawn during the High
    Priestess Arlokk fight.
  * Hakkar:
     Melee damage reduced.
     Cause Insanity should now correctly target Hakkar's current target,
     rather than closest.
     Cause Insanity will no longer remove all threat gained.
     Reduced the damage dealt by Poisonous Blood Siphon.
     Increased cooldown on Blood Siphon.
     Gained an Enrage ability after 10 minutes in combat.
     No longer has the Slow ability.
     Corrupted Blood now deals direct damage with a following damage
     over time effect and no longer spreads to others in the raid.
     Fixed a bug that was causing Corrupted Blood to target the current
     target rather than the intended random target.
  * Increased duration of Poisonous Cloud emitted by Sons of Hakkar.
  * Shades of Jin'do are now considered Undead.
- Slightly increased the movement of Lethon's Spirit Shades.
- Reduced the duration of Lethon's Draw Spirit from 7 seconds to 5
  seconds.
- Fixed a bug that would cause Lethon's Draw Spirit to spawn two
  spirits per person instead of one.
- King Gordok can no longer be seperated from Cho'Rush the Observer in
  Dire Maul.


World Environment
- Royal Dreadguards, Undercity Guardians, and Ironforge Guards will now
  detect enemy players at the same distance as the other cities' guards.
- Fixed a bug that would cause you to dismount in certain areas within
  the Undercity.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.9.2 (2006-01-11)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- Characters should no longer appear to "pop" around terrain.  Movement
  should be smoother once again.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.9.1 (2006-01-10)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

General
- Various disconnection issues have been fixed.

Druid
- Heart of the Wild - Previously, when shifting to Bear Form or Dire
  Bear Form, this talent would cause your current health to increase by
  the same amount as your max health. Now it will cause your percentage
  of max health to be the same before and after the shift, as well as
  shifting back to humanoid form. As a result, shifting in and out of
  these forms will no longer cause an increase in current health.
- Druids with the Symbol of Unending Energy will now be properly
  awarded 30 energy if their finishing move is dodged, parried, blocked,
  or missed.
- Feral Charge – Should no longer desync characters from the server
  when charging from land to water.

Paladin
- Silence effects should now work properly with Improved Concentration
  Aura.

Priest
- Mind Control - Now functions properly.  Previously, the person who
  was charmed did not appear to be moving on their screen or any other
  local clients.

Warrior
- Charge – Should no longer desync characters from the server when
  charging from land to water.

Items
- Elixir of Poison Resistance now removes up to 4 poison effects up to
  level 60. The immunity effect has been removed.
- The Winter Veil Disguise Kit now has a short casting time and can
  only be used when not in combat.

Quests & Reputation
- Chapter 2 of the Twilight Lexicon for the quest "The Twilight Lexicon"
  should again drop from the appropriate NPC.
- The "Field Duty" quest for Alliance should now work properly.

User Interface
- Using the search feature "Usable Items" no longer causes all pages on
  the auction house after the first to appear blank.
- Various errors occurring during use of the default user interface
  have been fixed.
- The /split command has been disabled.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.9.0 (2006-01-03)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Gates of Ahn'Qiraj
  The Gates of Ahn'Qiraj will house two massive, unique dungeons -- the
  Ruins of Ahn'Qiraj, a 20-man raid dungeon, and the Temple of 
  Ahn'Qiraj, a 40-man raid dungeon. As players delve deeper into the 
  mysteries of Ahn'Qiraj, they will discover revelations of the 
  Silithid infestation and their shadowy masters, the Qiraji. Players 
  will have to complete a world event of massive proportions before 
  they can open the Gates of Ahn'Qiraj on their realm.
  ***During the public test of Ahn'Qiraj, the world event to open the 
  gates will be accelerated to allow testing of the dungeon content.*** 

Linked Auction Houses
  Players will now be able to buy and sell goods with greater 
  effectiveness using the Linked Auction House system. Auction 
  Houses in Orgrimmar, Undercity, and Thunder Bluff will now share the 
  same pool of Horde player-created auctions, and Alliance players will 
  find the same to be true when visiting Ironforge, Stormwind City, and 
  Darnassus Auction Houses. This system has been expanded to support 
  the neutral Auction Houses as well. Tanaris, Everlook, and Booty Bay 
  will all be linked for players of both factions to access. In 
  addition, the "Looking for Group" and "Trade" channels have been 
  unified among the corresponding cities, meaning, for example, that 
  you can trade your goods or look for groups in Ironforge while in 
  Stormwind. 

Multiple Battlegrounds Queues
  Players will be able to enter multiple battleground queues. No longer 
  must you make the hard decision of which queue to join -- when queued 
  for all three, you can join the first one available or hold out for 
  that particular battleground which you've really got your heart set 
  on. Should a queue open while you are already in a battleground, you 
  may switch to the new battle or remain in the current on.

Soul Shard Bags
  Tailors now can make soul bags to hold soul shards. The smallest is a 
  20-slot bag, the recipe for which can be purchased in Gadgetzan. The 
  recipe for a larger bag can be found in Scholomance, and one for an 
  even larger bag can be found in Molten Core. In the main UI, these 
  soul bags will display how many shards they contain. So long as the 
  soul bags have room, any soul shards a warlock creates will 
  automatically go into the bag. 

Raid Calendar System
  The raid-lockout system has undergone a significant change. The new 
  system will have all instances reset at a certain server time, 
  regardless of when you were actually saved to the instance. The reset 
  schedule is as follows:
  Molten Core: Every 7 Days, resetting during weekly maintenance.
  Blackwing Lair: Every 7 Days, resetting during weekly maintenance
  Onyxia: Every 5 Days
  Zul'Gurub: Every 3 Days
  Temple of AhnQiraj (40-man): Every 7 Days, resetting during weekly 
  maintenance
  Ruins of AhnQiraj (20-man): Every 3 Days
  All resets will occur during off-hours, when the least amount of 
  raids are active. 

Important Note for Mac OS X Users
  The minimum supported Mac OS X revision for WoW will be changed in a 
  post-1.9.0 patch, from 10.3.5 to 10.3.9. If you are running 10.3.5 - 
  10.3.8 and need to get the free update, you can use Software Update 
  or you can go to the Apple website. This change will make 
  it easier for us to release future updates to the game, for example 
  to support upcoming Mac models based on Intel processors. 

General
- All Disorient effects have been renamed Incapacitate effects. This 
  includes Gouge, Sap, etc.
- All Confusion effects have been renamed Disorient effects. This 
  includes Blind, Scatter Shot, etc.
- Food and Drink are now in separate categories, so you can only have 
  one food effect and one drink effect on you at a time. The only 
  effect should be that foods that used to stack with each other (you 
  could have two food effects on you at once) no longer will stack.
- On-next-swing abilities will no longer cause multiple weapon procs 
  on a single swing. 
- It is now possible to change the games priority and processor
  affinity through Task Manager.

PvP & Battlegrounds
- The Defiler's Talisman and Talisman of Arathor are now available at 
  Friendly reputation.
- Level 48, 38, and 28 versions of the Defiler's Talisman and Talisman 
  of Arathor have been added.
- Two new rewards have been added for reaching Friendly reputation 
  level with the Silverwing Sentinel and Warsong Outrider factions.
- New caster ring reward added for reaching Exalted status with the 
  Stormpike or Frostwolf factions.
- When a player leaves a battleground before it concludes, they will 
  be unable to re-enter any battleground queue for 15 minutes.
- Several civilian NPCs, who previously would assist non-civilians, 
  will no longer do so. 
- A bug has been fixed with the Warsong Gulch reward vendors that were 
  allowing items achieved at reaching Friendly reputation to be 
  purchased at lower reputation levels.
- Reputation rewards for the PvP Battlegrounds have been adjusted:
  - Superior Health Draughts, Superior Mana Draughts, and Battleground-
    specific bandages are now available uniformly at Friendly 
    reputation.
  - Major Health Draughts and Major Mana Draughts are now available
    uniformly at Honored reputation.
  - Warsong Gulch and Arathi Basin now offer Battleground-specific
    rations at Friendly reputation.

Druids
- Bear and Dire Bear form - Effects that lower armor will now lower 
  armor by a percentage of the druid's full armor, rather than just 
  base (caster form) armor. However, Enrage will still only remove 75% 
  of base armor.
- Omen of Clarity - Special attacks will no longer consume their own 
  clearcasting state. All melee attacks will now be able to trigger the 
  clearcasting state.
- Nature's Grasp - This spell can now trigger from special melee 
  attacks. It will no longer be possible to cast Entangling Roots at no 
  mana cost immediately after Nature's Grasp procs.
- Nature's Grace - The Nature's Grace buff will now appear on the 
  player upon completion of casting, before the travel time of the 
  spell. So, Wrath crits will now benefit the casting time of the next
  spell cast.
- Insect Swarm - New icon.
- Improved Starfire - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes 
  or is diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap 
  Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge etc.).
- Omen of Clarity - This spell now works correctly with Bash, Rip, 
  Ferocious Bite, and Demoralizing Roar, granting a decrease in the 
  cost of the ability. Ferocious Bite will still use the entire energy 
  bar to generate additional damage. 
- Cat Form - Feline Swiftness will now regain its speed increase when
  moving from indoors to outdoors.
- Cure Poison - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Remove Curse - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Abolish Poison - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.

Hunters
- Arcane Shot  Will no longer trigger two Judgement of Wisdom effects
  with one shot.
- Aspect of the Pack and Aspect of the Cheetah - Periodic damage will 
  no longer trigger the Dazed effect.
- Aspect of the Wild - Radius increased. Tooltip updated to display 
  radius.
- Improved Concussive Shot - The stun effect's duration no longer 
  diminishes or is diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells 
  (e.g. Cheap Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge etc.).
- Tame Beast - The hunter will now turn to face the target during the 
  taming process.
- Bestial Wrath - Damage bonus reduced, duration increased.  In 
  addition, while enraged, the beast will be immune to Disorient 
  effects (e.g. Scatter Shot, Blind, etc.)
- Unleashed Fury - Damage bonus increased.
- Pet Changes
  + Base pet speed is now standardized for all pets, including legacy 
    pets. Pet speed can still be modified through the talent Bestial 
    Swiftness and pet abilities such as Charge, Dash, etc. 
  + All hunter pets will now always deal Physical damage for their base 
    attack. 
  + Turtles can now eat raw and cooked fish.
  + Turtles can now learn Shell Shield, allowing them to reduce all 
    damage taken by 50% for 10 sec.
  + Hunters can now tame Sons of Hakkar. Sons of Hakkar are in the Wind 
    Serpent family and will know Lightning Breath (Rank 6).
  + Boars can now learn Charge, an ability that allows them to charge 
    to an enemy, immobilize that enemy for 1 second, and add a large 
    amount of Attack Power to the boar's next attack.
  + Gorillas can now learn Thunderstomp, an ability that causes high 
    threat area Nature damage. 

Mages
- Impact - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes or is 
  diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap Shot, 
  Hammer of Justice, Charge etc.).
- Netherwind Regalia - The 8-piece set bonus will now proc immediately 
  upon completion of casting the spell, before travel time on the 
  spell. This will allow the proc to affect the next spell cast as 
  intended.
- Arcane Concentration - Blizzard will now be able to gain a 
  Clearcasting state from this talent.
- Arcane Missles - Will now be able to trigger procs based on dealing
  damage.
- Remove Lesser Curse - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base
  mana.
- Blast Wave - Will now show spell data in the talent page. 
- Conjure Water (Rank 7)  Will now create ten waters instead of four.
- Pyroblast  Damage bonus from + spell damage items increased.

Paladins
- Due to significant talent changes, all Paladins' talent points will 
  be refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent 
  spell/ability replacements have been significantly reduced.
- Paladins can now learn Greater Blessings for the following spells:
  + Blessing of Might
  + Blessing of Wisdom
  + Blessing of Kings
  + Blessing of Sanctuary
  + Blessing of Salvation 
  Greater Blessings will cast the associated blessing on all raid 
  members that share the same class as the target. For example, if you 
  cast Greater Blessing of Might on a warrior in your raid, all 
  warriors in the raid party will receive Blessing of Might from you. 
  Additionally, Greater Blessings have an increased duration of 15 
  minutes. These blessings require twice as much mana as the single 
  target version, as well as a reagent. Paladins can purchase these new 
  Greater Blessing spells from their class trainers.
- Seals and Judgements - Added or increased damage per level so that 
  these spells keep pace between replacements.
- Judgements - Judgements that place a debuff on their victim will now 
  all have their duration refreshed when the judging paladin strikes 
  the victim with his or her melee swings. All these debuffs have had 
  their duration decreased to 10 seconds. In addition, Judgements that 
  place debuffs can no longer be resisted.
- Seal of Righteousness - Now does holy damage on every swing. It can 
  now proc correctly as well. The Judgement effect has been renamed 
  "Judgement of Righteousness" to differentiate it from the Seal damage 
  in the combat log.
- Judgement of the Crusader - The holy damage bonus has been decreased 
  as part of rebalancing paladin damage (which is still increased 
  overall).
- Seal of Command - The proc will occur more often, but will only do 
  70% of weapon-swing damage.
- Judgement of Command - Instead of placing a debuff on the victim, 
  this spell now does immediate damage. If the victim is not stunned, 
  they only take 50% of the total damage. The damage on this Judgement 
  was increased significantly.
- Judgement of Wisdom - Arcane Shot will no longer cause this to proc 
  twice on one shot. Channeling spells can now trigger this proc as 
  well.
- Vengeance - Special ability critical hits can now trigger Vengeance.
- Judgement of Righteousness - The damage of this judgement was 
  increased significantly. This judgement can now trigger procs.  The
  bonus from spell damage items has been increased slightly.
- Holy Shock - Now heals friendly targets and damages enemy targets. 
  Mana cost reduced. Bonus from spell damage and healing items 
  increased.
- All Seals and Judgements have had their bonus coefficient from plus
  spell damage re-evaluated. Some holy damage effects had no 
  coefficient before and now have a coefficient.
- Vengeance - Clarified the tooltip to indicate procs will not trigger 
  Vengeance.
- Summon Warhorse - Mana cost reduced.
- Summon Charger - Mana cost reduced.
- Consecration - No longer displays a debuff icon on targets in the 
  area of effect.
- Updated Aura tooltips to be more clear (include radius, fix 
  grammatical errors etc...).
- Judgement - Range increased, cooldown decreased, mana cost decreased. 
  Using Judgement will now initiate melee combat.
- Exorcism - Now usable on Demon targets in addition to Undead targets.
- Holy Wrath - Now usable on Demon targets in addition to Undead 
  targets.
- Seal of Justice - Mana cost slightly increased. The stun effect's 
  duration no longer diminishes or is diminished by controlled stun 
  abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge, 
  etc).
- Seal of Righteousness - The damage bonus from +Holy damage has been
  reevaluated on this seal.  Since the damage is delivered on every 
  swing, the bonus has been reduced.  However, paladins attacking with
  faster weapons should see an overall increase in the bonus from 
  + spell damage gear.  Mana Cost slightly increased.
- Seal of Command - Damage bonus from +Holy damage items slightly 
  increased.
- Seal of the Crusader - Mana cost slightly increased.
- Seal of Fury - The seal and judgement have been removed and replaced 
  with a new self-buff, Righteous Fury, which will increase threat from 
  Holy damage.
- Seal of Light - Mana cost slightly increased.
- Seal of Wisdom - Mana cost slightly increased.
- Seal of Command - Mana cost slightly increased.
- Hammer of Wrath - Missile speed of the flying hammer increased.
- Divine Protection, Divine Shield and Blessing of Protection - Targets
  of these spells will now receive the "Forbearance" effect, 
  preventing another of these three spells from being applied to that 
  target for one minute.
- New Spell: Righteous Fury (level 16) - Increases the threat generated 
  by the Paladin's Holy attacks by 60%. Lasts 30 minutes.
- Blessing of Sanctuary - Now causes Holy damage to the attacker when 
  the blessed target blocks an attack in addition to the current 
  effect. 
- Hammer of Justice - Is now a Protection spell.
- Repentance - Is now considered an Incapacitate effect.
- Blessing of Wisdom - Mana regeneration over time will no longer
  generate threat.
- Purify - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Cleanse - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.

Priests
- Martyrdom - This talent will now trigger on melee special abilities 
  as well as on melee swings. The tooltip has been clarified to 
  indicate this ability only works on melee strikes.
- Dispel Magic - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Cure Disease - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Abolish Disease - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Mind Blast - Threat raised on ranks 7, 8, and 9. Incorrect data had 
  been entered in those spells, resulting in less threat generated than 
  designed.
- Blackout - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes or is 
  diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap Shot, 
  Hammer of Justice, Charge, etc). 

Rogues
- Sword Specialization - Special attacks such as Sinister Strike, and 
  Mortal Strike now properly trigger the chance to gain an extra 
  attack.
- Mace Specialization - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes 
  or is diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap 
  Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge etc...). 
- Slice and Dice - This finisher can now trigger the Ruthlessness
  talent.

Shaman
- Lightning Shield - This spell will now proc when the shaman is struck 
  by elemental attacks.
- Stormstrike - Earthbind and Stoneclaw totems will no longer use up
  charges of Stormstrike.
- New Spell - Tranquil Air Totem. Creates a totem that reduces the 
  threat caused by nearby party members by 20%. 
- Grounding Totem - This totem will no longer absorb the spell from 
  Crippling Poison or Deadly Poison.
- Purge - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Cure Poison - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Cure Disease - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base mana.
- Poison Cleansing Totem - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base
  mana.
- Disease Cleansing Totem - Mana cost now based on a percentage of base
  mana.
  
Warlocks
- Searing Pain  Reduced mana cost by 10%.
- Infernal and Doomguard - Increased armor 10% and damage 30% on both 
  pets.
- Soul Link - This spell can no longer be partially dispelled off the 
  warlock. In addition, Soul Link can no longer be used on non-demon pets.
- Hellfire - Victims of Hellfire are now able to resist properly. 
  Warlocks continue (as designed) to be unable to resist their own 
  damage.
- Curse of Shadow and Curse of the Elements - These curses can no 
  longer cause resistance to become negative. To compensate, both 
  curses now increases the damage taken from the appropriate schools by 
  a percentage.
- Summon Felsteed - Mana cost reduced.
- Summon Dreadsteed - Mana cost reduced.
- Pyroclasm - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes or is 
  diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap Shot, 
  Hammer of Justice, Charge, etc). 

Warriors
- Execute - Improved Execute and other discounts to the Execute ability 
  will now correctly convert the resulting extra rage into damage.
- Retaliation - This ability will no longer lose charges when the 
  attacker is behind the warrior.
- Sword Specialization - Special attacks such as Sinister Strike, and 
  Mortal Strike now properly trigger the chance to gain an extra 
  attack.
- Sweeping Strikes - Whirlwind and Retaliation will now correctly 
  consume the charges from Sweeping Strikes.
- Bloodthirst - The damage component has been increased to 45% of 
  attack power.
- Enrage - The talent will now grant 5/10/15/20/25% extra damage when 
  enraged, instead of 8/16/24/33/40%.
- Mace Specialization - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes 
  or is diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap 
  Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge, etc).
- Improved Revenge - The stun effect's duration no longer diminishes or 
  is diminished by controlled stun abilities and spells (e.g. Cheap 
  Shot, Hammer of Justice, Charge, etc). 
- Unbridled Wrath - Only normal melee swings will trigger the rage
  generation from this ability.

Racial Traits
- Troll Racial Abilities
  Troll Berserking
   + New functionality: Berserking is now an activated ability that 
     increases your melee, ranged, and casting speed by 10% to 30%. 
     The value scales upwards towards 30% depending how low your health
     is when you activate the ability.
   + Now lasts 10 seconds.
   + Now requires a small amount of mana, rage, or energy (depending on
     your class) to activate.
   + No longer requires being struck by a critical to activate.
   + Now has a three minute cooldown, up from two minutes.
   + No longer has a global cooldown.
  Throwing Mastery
   + Trolls now also receive a bonus to Bow weapons in addition to 
     Throwing weapons. 
- Orc Racial Abilities
  Blood Fury
   + Now applies a healing effectiveness debuff on the user instead of 
     the attack power penalty. The healing debuff is applied 
     immediately upon using the ability. 
  Hardiness
   + Resistance is now applied to just Stun mechanics. 
- Gnome Racial Abilities
  Escape Artist
   + Casting time lowered. 
- Dwarven Racial Abilities
  Stoneform
   + No longer snares the user.
   + Armor bonus increased.
   + Duration lowered. 

Items
- All of the Tier 2 Class Armor sets have been updated with new art.
- The following weapons and shields have been updated with new art: 
  Perdition's Blade, Obsidian Edged Blade, Gutgore Ripper, Core Hound 
  Tooth, Aurastone Hammer, Drillborer Disk, Staff of Dominance.
- Many of the pieces from the Tier 2 Armor sets have received updated 
  statistics. The armor sets with the most extensive changes include 
  the Netherwind, Nemesis, and Judgement sets. Other sets received 
  fewer revisions, or none at all.
- Slimes have been latching on to more valuable items and they will now 
  be dropping better loot than they used to, including coin drops and 
  special bags.
- Drop rates of Darkmoon Cards 2-8 (Portals 2-8, etc..) have been 
  reduced. Ace drop rates have been increased.
- The drop rate of Shadowcat Hides has been increased.
- The Lifestealing enchantment now does shadow damage rather than 
  fire damage.
- Manna Biscuits now have two separate spell effects so they stack
  correctly with other food and water.
- Well Fed buffs from special foods will no longer stack with each 
  other.
- The enchanter-made wands are now correctly flagged as Bind on Equip.
- Silithus air elementals have a slightly increased chance of dropping 
  essence of air
- Stormshroud Shoulders have been fixed to be a superior item and have 
  had the stamina on them slightly increased as well.
- Whistle of the Black War Raptor was changed to Bind on Acquire.
- The Runed Stygian Belt is no longer Unique.
- Bandages will now appears as "Consumable" in the auction house.
- Jaedenar humanoids and demons in Felwood and Winterfall Furbolgs in 
  Winterspring can now drop Runecloth.
- Winterfall Furbolgs will not drop Winterfall Firewater as often.
- The Seal of Wrynn, Nogg's Gold Ring, and Talvash's Gold Ring have 
  been improved to be superior items.
- All Giants in Azshara now drop cash and items appropriate for an elite 
  creature.
- The attack speed slowing effect from Thunderfury has been reduced, 
  and no longer stacks with other such effects such as Thunderclap. The 
  rate at which the weapon procs has also been lowered.
- The Reckless Charge ability of the Goblin Rocket Helmet and Horned 
  Viking Helmet is now considered an incapacitating effect instead of a
  sleep effect.
- Flamewaker Legplates and Sash of Whispered Secrets improved to have 
  the proper stats of an epic item.
- Broken Silithid Chitin is now marked as a poor item.
- Albino Crocscale Boots now has the appropriate geometry attached.
- Darkshore Grouper now has an appropriate sound when moved in your 
  inventory.
- The effect of the Freezing Band is now considered a Freeze effect.
- The Force Reactive Disk's and Cloak of Fire's effects will no longer 
  gain a benefit from effects that increase spell damage.
- The Insightful Hood and Southsea Head Bucket will now cover hair 
  properly.
- The proc ability of the Halberd of Smiting can no longer cause 
  another proc.
- The Glimmering Mithril Insignia will no longer make a player immune 
  to Death Coil.
- The Goblin Mortar's stun effect now has a description.
- Six Demon Bag tooltip changed to note that the target must be in 
  front of the caster.
- The Fiery War Axe is now in fact, Fiery.
- The Abyssal Plate Gauntlets are now Bind on Equip.
- Items with the Frost Blast ability will now deal the correct damage 
  listed.
- Gauntlets of Shining Light is now spelled correctly.
- The Pure Elementium Band now has a sell price.
- The Mendicant's Slippers now have the proper amount of stamina for 
  the level of the item.
- Arcanist's Bindings had more resistances than proper for the item, 
  and these were removed.
- Alcor's Sunrazor is now Bind on Equip.
- Transforming Thunderstrike and Shadowstrike will no longer consume 
  additional copies of the item that might be in the inventory.
- Added a note to the tooltip for the Healing and Mana Draughts 
  available in Alterac Valley that informs the player they are only 
  usable in Alterac Valley.
- Incorrect amounts of abilities such as Attack Power, Increased Fire 
  Damage, or Increased Healing Damage were being applied to all random 
  item property world drops. Two handed weapons such as Staves had much 
  lower amounts of these abilities, while ranged and one handed weapons 
  had too much. All further drops of these items will have the correct 
  amounts, but previously dropped items will not be affected by this 
  change.
- The Shardtooth Meat quest item can no longer be fed to a Hunter pet.
- Blue Dragon Card - This trinket will no longer proc from non-combat 
  abilities.
- Shield Spikes - Shield Spike damage will no longer occur on ranged 
  blocks.
- The Gnomish Death Rays backfire will now affect players even if they
  have an immunity effect, such as Divine Shield.
- The Zandalarian shoulder enchantments now properly display their
  effects on the item enchanted.

Professions
- An Alchemy recipe to Transmute Heart of Fire into three Elemental 
  Fires has been added at the Friendly level of the Thorium Brotherhood.
- Epic items that are level 51 and above will now disenchant into a 
  Nexus Crystal. Also items that normally disenchant into Large 
  Brilliant Shards have a very small chance of disenchanting into a 
  Nexus Crystal. New more powerful enchanting recipes that require 
  these Crystals can be found in the new Ahn'Qiraj content.
- Enchanters can now turn some of their dusts and shards into magical 
  oils. These oils when applied to weapons add a temporary bonus to 
  magical damage or mana regeneration that stacks with permanent 
  enchantments. The lower levels of these recipes are found on normal 
  enchanting vendors. The higher level versions are found on special 
  vendors and are rewards for high Zandalar faction.
- The Enchanting Trainer in Cenarion Hold in Silithus sells some of 
  both new types of enchanting formulae.
- Schools of fish have appeared around the world that can be fished 
  from a few times before being fished out. These schools tend to 
  contain valuable fish types such as Oily Blackmouth or Firefin 
  Snapper. In some places, wreckage can be fished from for even better 
  rewards.
- The cooking trainers around the world sell the recipe for Sagefish 
  and Greater Sagefish. These two fish types can be found in schools in 
  inland areas and provide health and mana regeneration as well as 
  additional mana regeneration for 15 minutes after eating.
- Engineers with skill 250 or greater, who have completed Umi 
  Rumplesnicker's 'Are We There Yeti?' quest line, should seek her out 
  again in Everlook. 

Quests & Reputation
- The Timbermaw Furbolgs have received a faction revamp!
   + The Timbermaw Furbolg faction is now named "Timbermaw Hold."
   + Certain named Deadwood and Winterfall Furbolgs are now giving more 
     positive Timbermaw Hold faction when killed.
   + Old quests have been revised, and several new quests involving the 
     Timbermaw Furbolgs have been added. 
- Reputation caps for killing monsters now happen at the end of a 
  level, rather than in the middle of it. For example: if reputation 
  gains for killing a monster were previously capped at the middle of 
  the range for Friendly on a monster, then they are now capped at the 
  end of Friendly.
- Reputation is now its own category in the chat window; you can change 
  the color of reputation gains and losses as reported in chat without 
  it affecting other miscellaneous information.
- All Alliance versions of the quest "Heeding the Call" now give 
  uniform reputation increases.
- Warlock quests that teach imp summoning now all uniformly award 
  reputation increases for respective racial factions.
- Spells now may have a casting requirement of current reputation with 
  a faction.
- All versions of the quests "A Donation of Wool," "A Donation of 
  Silk," and "A Donation of Mageweave" have had the level of the quest 
  raised so that higher level characters performing them will be able 
  to receive the full reputation gain. The minimum level requirement 
  for the quests have not changed, though the amount of XP gained when 
  completing any of these quests will be different than from before. 
  Mageweave will continue to give more XP than Silk, and Silk more XP 
  than Wool.
- The quests "Morrowgrain to Darnassus" and "Morrowgrain to Thunder 
  Bluff" now give increased reputation per turn-in to be in line with
  the amount given with "Morrowgrain to Feathermoon Stronghold."
- The Alliance version of the quest "Centaur Bounty" now gives 
  Stormwind faction for completion.
- The Horde version of the quest "Centaur Bounty" now gives the same 
  amount of XP as the Alliance version (which means it was increased).
- The quest "Zaeldarr the Outcast" now gives an Argent Dawn reputation 
  increase upon completion.
- A bug with the reputation system has been fixed that was preventing 
  some awards to Horde and Alliance factions from being shared properly 
  amongst all member factions of the team.
- The quest "Ledger from Tanaris" now gives a reputation reward for 
  Gadgetzan upon completion.
- The quest "Supplies for Nethergarde" now has an additional reward of 
  increased Stormwind reputation.
- Fixed typos in both quest versions of "All Along the Watchtower".
- Fixed typos in both quest versions of "Lessons Anew".
- A kobold has been moved away from Piznik so that it won't keep 
  evading in the quest "Gerenzos Orders".
- Fixed typos in the quest "Signets of the Zandalar".
- Fixed typos in the quest "Rotten Eggs".
- The cleansed plants of Felwood have been modified:
   + There is no longer a gossip option to interact with them; simply 
     right click on the plant to receive your buff or fruits.
   + The amount of items you get from plants has been adjusted.
   + A corrupted whipper root plant was bugged to require one fewer 
     plant salves than intended to be cleansed; its now fixed to 
     require the salves just like the other whipper roots. 
- Fixed two bugs where Pratt McGrubben in Feathermoon Stronghold was 
  not offering to re-teach Wild Leather Shoulders and where he was not 
  properly teaching Wild Leather Leggings.
- Fixed typos in both quest versions of "Power over Poison".
- The level of the quest "Piercing the Veil" has been increased from 3 
  to 4, bringing it in line with similar quests.
- Sayges Dark Fortune of Damage buff now only increases damage from a 
  randomly determined range of 1-10%.
- A coin reward has been added to the quest "Worth Its Weight in Gold".
- Vahlarriel in the second part of the quest series "Vahlarriel's 
  Search" now has something to say when returning with the pendant.
- The level for the quest "Parts for Kravel" has been raised to bring 
  it in line with the other quests of the Kravel series.
- You now need fewer Scorpashi Venoms to complete the second quest of 
  the "Reagents for Reclaimers Inc." quest series.
- Baron Revilgaz now should be a little more vociferous.
- Fixed a bug with the Horde Hallows End quest "Ruined Kegs" that 
  allowed the Alliance to interact with the keg.
- Hallows End Pumpkin Treats should no longer be on the same timer as 
  combat-oriented potions. Really.
- Xabraxxis Demon Bag will now last slightly longer in the world once 
  he is killed (3 minutes, up from 2).
- The reward for the quest "An Audience with the King," "Seal of 
  Wrynn" - has been improved.
- The reward for the quest "Gnome Improvement," "Talvashs Gold Ring" 
  has been improved. XP and reputation rewards for the quest have also 
  been increased.
- The reward for the quest "Noggs Ring Redo," "Noggs Gold Ring" has 
  been improved. XP and reputation rewards for the quest have also 
  been increased.
- The Horde Quest "Material Assistance" should no longer auto-launch an 
  incorrect (deprecated) quest.
- The quest "Galen's Escape" now gives an additional coin reward upon 
  completion, as well as an increase of reputation amongst the players 
  factional team. 

Raids & Dungeons
- Noxxion in Maraudon now has the correct immunities.
- Noxxion is now social and will bring friends if pulled past other 
  creatures.
- Abyssal Templars are no longer marked as Humanoid.
- Twilight Stonecallers in Silithus should now aggro properly.
- Gordok Reavers and Warlocks now have a slightly larger radius for 
  detection and "call for help."
- Drop rate of Dark Runes in Scholomance has been reduced.
- The Altar of the Deeps in Blackfathom Deeps will now give players 
  the Blessing of the Deeps.
- The abomination event in Stratholme was been reworked with new 
  technology to insure there are no more premature resets. 

User Interface
- The Guild UI has been significantly improved. Now when you click on
  a guild member, it will open up a side panel with all the information 
  about that member including their note and officer's note.
- There is now a Guild Info panel for each guild. That panel allows a 
  guild to enter long term information and messages about the guild 
  that is too long for the message of the day. The guildmaster can use 
  the guild control panel to determine who has access to change the 
  text in this panel.
- Options have been added that allow raiders to not display their base 
  party UI when the Raid UI is up. Also, you can choose to only display 
  effects on players that you can dispel or ones you can cast. This is 
  all in the interface options pane.
- A "tip of the day" feature has been added to loading screens within 
  the game.
- Under Video Options there is now a slider to control the detail of 
  spell effects. Lower settings can help to improve performance.
- Auction buyers/sellers will now receive a detailed invoice of the 
  transaction.
- The casting bar has been brightened back up, it was appearing darker 
  than intended due to a bug.
- A new option has been added to Interface options, "Sticky Targeting." 
  When this is turned on, you will not deselect your current target when 
  you click on empty space.
- A new interface option, "Detailed Loot Information" has been added 
  that defaults to 'on.' If you turn it off you will only see the roll 
  and Need/Greed option of the player who won the item rather than 
  information for every player.
- Open bags that are in your bank will now have a bluish background to 
  them to allow easy differentiation between inventory bags and bank 
  bags.
- The Friends List and Guild UI will now display when a person is AFK.
- It is now possible to use the dressing room UI to model items that 
  are being rolled for in the Group Lood/Need Before Greed Popup window.
- Add-ons, Macros and Keybindings can now be saved on a per character 
  basis, so you can have different characters load different add-ons/
  macros/keybindings.
- The Ignore command will now ignore emotes.
- The Interface Options Pane has been split up into a normal panel 
  and an advanced panel.
- In the initial loading screen there will be a tip displayed. This 
  can be turned off from the interface options menu.
- Any time an item is distributed using the "Master Looter" system and 
  the item is quality epic or above there will be a confirmation 
  dialogue to confirm that the item is going to the correct person.
- Key bindings can now be saved either globally or on a per character 
  basis.
- Add-ons can now be saved either globally or on a per character basis.
- In addition to the set of macros shared by all characters, each 
  character gets an additional 18 macros available to them.
- Added the ability to link enchanting recipes in chat.
- Optimized UI event handling in raid situations.
- Optimized UI layout engine to improve loading times.
- The game will no longer accidentally load UI files that are dropped 
  loose into the top level installation directory.
- The EquipCursorItem() script function uses slot numbers consistent 
  with the rest of the inventory functions. Any macros which use this 
  function should be updated by adding one to the slot number used 
  currently.
- New TOC entry for dynamically loadable add-ons: ## LoadWith: Addon1, 
  Addon2, etc. - Indicates that your add-on should be automatically 
  loaded after ANY of the add-ons specified on the LoadWith line are 
  loaded.
- The 8th return value from GetItemInfo() is no longer be localized, 
  instead is one of a number of INVTYPE_* tokens.
- A new 9th return value from GetItemInfo() is the inventory icon for
  the item.
- debugprofilestop() will now return sub-milisecond (floating point) 
  values.
- Added Texture:GetTexture() which returns the filename (without 
  extension) of the file for the texture.
- Added FontString:SetNonSpaceWrap(true|false)
- Added Frame:GetFrameType() which returns the type of a frame.
- Added Frame:IsFrameType("typeName") which returns true if the frame 
  is of type typeName, or a subtype of typeName.
- New 8-param form of Texture:SetTexCoord(ULx, ULy, LLx, LLy, URx, URy, 
  LRx, LRy)
- Parent frame scales are cumulative instead of overrides.
- Textures and FontStrings now have IsVisible() and IsShown() functions 
  with the same semantics as the frame functions of the same name.
- Added Button:SetFont(), which works like the equivalent FontString
  function.
- Added ScrollingMessageFrame:SetFont(), which works like the 
  equivalent FontString function.
- Special honor awards show up in the combat log.
- Druids can preview different weapons in the dressing room while in 
  moonkin form.
- Emotes show up in the chat log file.
- Combat messages no longer show up in the chat log file.
- Resurrection spells will return pets to life with the appropriate 
  amount of health and mana.
- Talent improvements to buffs will persist across instance boundaries 
  and logging out. 

World Environment
- Elven NPCs in Scholomance will now animate properly.
- Players should no longer be able to walk on steep terrain.
- Players should no longer be able to move slowly through some locked 
  doors and gates.
- Nida Winterhoof in Thunder Bluff now sells Flowers for the sensitive 
  Horde player.
- The Short John Mithril's chest in Stranglethorn Arena will now 
  display an effect when it is being opened so its harder to open the 
  chest unnoticed.
- Night Elf food vendors have changed their supplies slightly.
- Chests in Maraudon have been disabled for good.
- In Wetlands, Bluegill Murlocs will now be more plentiful and several 
  other Bluegill camps have been thinned.
- All mount sounds, when standing and jumping, are now in place.
- Tauren males now use their off-hand attack animation.
- The Zeppelins propeller from Under City should now animate properly.
- Jesper and Spoops should no longer be lingering around once the
  Hallows End holiday period is over.
- The Moonglade Wardens have received an increase in hit points and
  damage dealt, bringing them in line with their Steamwheedle Cartel
  bruiser counterparts.
- Flight Paths
   + New flight paths added between Ironforge and Chillwind Point. 
     Also, between Chillwind Point and Light's Hope Chapel.
   + Fixed a problem with the flight paths between The Crossroads in 
     The Barrens and Zoram'gar Outpost in Ashenvale.
   + Fixed the flight over Yojamba Isle from Booty Bay in Stranglethorn
     to Sentinel Hill in Westfall. 

Bug Fixes
- Fixed a bug that caused Crimson Templar to be doing much more damage
  with it's fireball attack than intended.
- Fixed a bug that could cause Guard Slip'kik to move while trapped in 
  ice.
- Fixed a bug that caused Azure Templar, Earthen Templar, and Hoary 
  Templar to be resistant to Fire.
- Fixed a bug that would cause Time Lapse to cause hate reduction even 
  if the target resisted the effect.
- Fixed a bug that allowed pets to be targeted by "Wild Polymorph" 
  during the Nefarian encounter. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.8.4 (2005-12-06)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Battlegrounds
- Battles must now last at least ten minutes after the start of the 
  battle in order for the losing team to receive a Mark of Honor. 

World
- New quests for the Feast of Winter Veil have been added! See your 
  Smokywood Pastures customer service representative in Ironforge and
  Orgrimmar for more details!
- The level of many of last year's Feast of Winter Veil quests have
  been adjusted so that reputation rewards are available in their full
  amount for players of all levels able to do them.
- Fixed a bug with both versions of the quest "A Smokywood Pastures' 
  Thank You!" that was sending mail out immediately rather than on the
  intended delay.
- In a startling discovery, Mistletoe sold on last year's vendors is 
  now named "Fake Mistletoe". A Smokywood Pastures spokesman was quoted
  as saying, "Sorry, no refunds."
- Some of the Southsea Dock Workers that were working under the boat 
  should now be much more accessible to players.
- Andre Firebeard no longer has a chance of dropping a Wastewander
  Water Pouch.
- All OOX Distress Beacons are now multi-drop; everyone in a group
  should be able to receive one if it drops.
- Fixed a bug with Oglethorpe Obnoticus' gossip where he was being much
  more familiar with strangers than he should have been. 

General
- Various preparations added to the client for Patch 1.9.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.8.3 (2005-11-08)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

New Blizzard Launcher 

 A new launch utility has been created to enhance your entry into World
 of Warcraft! The Blizzard Launcher will provide up-to-date news and
 important event- and support-related updates. In some regions, the
 Blizzard Launcher also scans for Trojan viruses and third party cheat 
 programs and notifies you if it has located any on your machine. In 
 addition to providing you with the benefits of additional anti-virus 
 protection, the scan that the launcher conducts represents another 
 security measure to protect your World of Warcraft account information
 and gameplay experience. For further details, please go to 
 http://www.blizzard.com/support/wow/?id=aww01907p1. 

General
- The AddOn button should now properly show on the character selection
  screen for players using custom interfaces.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.8.2 (2005-10-26)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bugs
- Fixed a crash in the German client.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.8.1 (2005-10-25)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Battlegrounds
- Players can now turn in their old Battleground victory tokens, such 
  as the Arathi Resource Crate, for the new Marks of Honor implemented
  in 1.8. These exchange quests are available on the new Horde
  Warbringers and Alliance Brigadier Generals, respectively.
- Certain geometry exploits in Arathi Basin have been fixed. 

Items
- The tooltip on the Lightforged Blade has been updated to correctly
  show its minimum level requirement of 47 and its Bind on Acquire
  status. 

User Interface
- Fonts should once again display properly.
- Fixed bug preventing UI scripting error messages from wrapping.
- Fixed per-character saved variables for non-English character names.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.8.0 (2005-10-11)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Disturbance at the Great Trees
  Something is amiss in the Emerald Dream. Immense dragons with the 
  shimmering emerald scales of the Green Dragonflight have been sighted 
  guarding the portals at the Great Trees... but these once-noble 
  creatures crawl with a new, strange menace, not the peace for which 
  Ysera is known. Bring many allies should you dare to confront them; 
  their powers are formidable and they will not hesitate to crush any 
  who draw near. 

The Stirring of the Silithid
  The arid sands of Silithus are shifting. Something is awakening 
  beyond the wall to the south... Aid the Druids of the Cenarion Circle 
  as they delve into the mysteries of the desert. Seek answers behind 
  the Twilight Hammer's presence. Discover more about the alien 
  creatures known as the Silithid as you explore their hives. Many 
  new endeavors await the high-level adventurer! 

Hallow's End
  When the decorations of Hallow's End light up Azeroth's cities, you 
  know there's mischief afoot! Seek special vendors in Orgrimmar or 
  Ironforge and get your hands on treats! Aid a sick orphan in a little 
  trick-or-treating! Deathcaller Yanka, attending the Forsaken's 
  Wickerman Festival, and Sergeant Hartman of Southshore are seeking 
  your aid in keeping the enemy out of their holiday affairs -- are 
  you up to the challenge? 

General
- Instant Attacks
   The mechanics of most instant melee attacks have been modified to 
   improve item balance. Previously, instant melee attacks did damage 
   based on the damage range of the weapon, plus a bonus for the 
   player's attack power. This bonus was then multiplied by the speed 
   of the weapon. As a result, slow weapons did more damage than was 
   intended, and fast weapons were considered inferior by most players. 
   We have changed the way the attack power bonus is calculated for 
   instant attacks. This change does NOT affect attack power 
   calculations for normal melee attacks. Instead of multiplying by the 
   speed of the weapon, the attack power bonus is now multiplied by a 
   fixed number pulled from the following table:
    + Two-handed weapons: 3.3
    + Daggers: 1.7
    + All other one-handed weapons: 2.4
   As a direct result of this, many weapons have shifted position in 
   their relative power. In particular, many Epic (purple) quality 
   items are now more powerful than slower Superior (blue) weapons.
   This change was not made to reduce the power of instant attacks, but 
   to correct the relative imbalance of weapon itemization. At a given 
   level requirement, epic quality weapons should always be more 
   powerful than superior quality weapons.
   Please also note that all normal weapon swings will be completely 
   unaffected by this change. The following abilities are affected by 
   the design change: Sinister Strike, Ambush, Backstab, Whirlwind, 
   Mortal Strike, and Overpower.
- The cost per point of durability to repair plate, chain, and leather 
  items has been reduced to be equal to the cost of repairing cloth items 
  of the same quality.
- You can now repurchase up to 12 items that you have sold to a vendor. 
  There is now a buyback tab on all merchants that you can select to 
  repurchase the last 12 items you sold since you last logged in. When 
  your character leaves the game or zones to a different area, this 
  list of items will be cleared, so if you have accidentally sold 
  something, don’t wait to buy it back. Buy it back immediately.
- Perception (Human Racial) is now usable while stealthed.
- Guardians and pets in aggressive mode no longer attack civilians.
- There is now a spell effect when you increase your reputation to a 
  new level.
- Channeled spells that are cancelled by movement can no longer be cast 
  while moving.
- Pets no longer break off attacks when their target is affected by 
  Warlock Fear.
- The "Knockout" mechanic has been renamed "Disorient" and all tooltips 
  that referenced this mechanic should be updated. 

PvP
- Honor System
   The percentage of players that may reach ranks 6 through 14 has been 
   increased.
   Lower-level players should advance in the Honor System more quickly 
   than they had previously (although this change does not affect the 
   highest ranks they can achieve).
- Battlegrounds
   Each Battleground has an individual turn-in quest associated with 
   its related victory/loss condition. Upon completion of a 
   Battleground, the winning side will be awarded three Marks of Honor 
   while the losing side will be awarded one Mark of Honor. Three Marks 
   of Honor may be turned in to the associated questgiver for Honor 
   Points and faction increase. Should players complete this turn-in 
   quest, they will find that the bonus Honor Points for completion are 
   twice that of normal turn-in conditions (individual).
   Players of levels 10 - 19 will now be able to participate in the 
   battle for Warsong Gulch.
   Alterac Valley has received an overhaul:
    + In order to keep teams in Alterac Valley more numerically 
      balanced, players will now enter Alterac Valley on a one-for-one 
      basis (i.e. if there are 30 players in the battleground for each 
      side with 10 players in the Alliance queue and 2 players in the 
      Horde queue, only two players from each team will be added, 
      bringing the total to 32 per side).
    + The minimum number of players required to start a battle in 
      Alterac Valley has been lowered to 20 (the maximum is still 40).
    + Points for completing the map and winning have been slightly 
      decreased.
    + Graveyards and graveyard capture points are now at different 
      locations. The banners players must interact with in order to 
      capture a graveyard have been distanced from each other somewhat 
      in order to alleviate "graveyard zerging" and make graveyards 
      more meaningful to both defense and offense.
    + Several terrain changes were made to fix some geometry exploits 
      as well as to adjust for the new graveyard mechanic.
    + Iceblood Graveyard has been fortified.
    + The Frostwolf Relief Hut now has appropriate guards.
    + A great avalanche has closed off both the eastern and western 
      segments of Alterac Valley. This has displaced the Syndicate, the 
      Wildpaw Gnolls, and many of the Winterax Trolls.
    + Due to the avalanche, Korrak the Bloodrager and a small band of 
      surviving Trolls have made the Snowfall Graveyard their new home. 
      Players will find that Snowfall is now under Korrak's control and 
      they must defeat Korrak and his Troll guards if they wish to take 
      Snowfall.
    + The quests Korrak the Bloodrager (Alliance), Korrak the 
      Everliving (Alliance), The Legend of Korrak (Horde), and The 
      Return of Korrak (Horde) have been removed from the game. The 
      rewards for the initial quest involving Korrak have been moved 
      and can be acquired by completing the quest associated with 
      winning a match in Alterac Valley. We realize that some players 
      may have had the Korrak quest and never completed it. These 
      players may have already completed the quest for killing the 
      General and thus might not be able to benefit from the rewards 
      from the previous quest line. We have opted to add an extra quest 
      step at the end of the General kill quests to reward players that 
      fall under such conditions.
    + A new item has been added as one of the reward choices for the 
      quests Hero of the Stormpike and Hero of the Frostwolf.
    + NPC difficulty has been scaled down. All NPCs have had their 
      power reduced by 15-30%.
    + There is now a portcullis at the end of each of the entrance 
      tunnels inside Alterac Valley. They will rise two minutes into 
      the battle. 
- The PvP Tier2 Alliance and Horde Cloth armor sets have new updated 
  textures.
- Hunter traps no longer affect opposing players when the hunter is not 
  flagged for PvP. 

Druids
- Due to significant talent changes, talent points for Druids have been 
  refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent 
  spell/ability replacements have been significantly reduced.
- Hurricane - No longer a talent. Now available to all Druids at 
  level 40. Damage and Mana cost increased on all ranks. Spell is now 
  cast on a targeted area up to 30 yards away and affected by Nature’s 
  Reach. Multiple Druids casting Hurricane will no longer stack the 
  slowdown effect. Radius of effect decreased slightly.
- Remove Curse - Updated tooltip to reflect that it's usable on 
  friendly targets only.
- Shapeshifting - Fixed a bug where the Chilled effect caused by Ice 
  Armor/Frost Armor was not removed properly when shapeshifting.
- Swipe - Self cooldown removed.
- Tranquility - Cooldown reduced to 5 minutes. Mana cost reduced by 25%.
- Cat Form - The attack power bonus from the base cat form will now 
  calculate correctly on zoning or logging in.

Hunters
- Counterattack - Now properly sets its cooldown.
- Throw - Use of this ability will no longer cause a global cooldown 
  with all other abilities.
- Auto-shot is now cancelled when you die.
- Added Lightning Breath pet ability for Wind Serpents. This ability 
  instantly hits a single target for Nature damage at medium range. 

Mages
- Arcane Missiles - Should now properly report the correct "out of 
  range" indicator on the action bar. 

Paladins
- Judgement of Light and Judgement of Wisdom will now benefit players 
  that are immune to Holy effects (e.g. Divine Shield). 

Priests
- Psychic Scream - Updated tooltip to reflect that damage caused to the 
  feared target may break the effect. Included radius in tooltip.
- Devouring Plague (Undead) - Will now properly consume the Inner Focus 
  effect when cast.
- Shadowguard (Troll) - Tooltip updated to reflect actual functionality.
- Elune's Grace (Night Elf) - New icon. 

Rogues
- Vanish - Fixed a bug where the Chilled effect caused by Ice 
  Armor/Frost Armor was not removed properly when vanishing.
- Parry - Minimum level to train this ability has been lowered to 12.
- Shoot Bow/Crossbow/Gun - Fixed a bug where these abilities could be 
  used faster than intended.
- Throw - Use of this ability will now only cause a cooldown with Shoot 
  abilities.
- Ambush - Now uses normalized attack power.
- Backstab - Now uses normalized attack power.
- Riposte - Now properly sets its cooldown.
- Sinister Strike - Now uses normalized attack power. 

Shaman
- Lightning Shield - Tooltip updated to reflect actual functionality.
- Ghost Wolf - Will now correctly have its cast time reduced by 
  Nature's Swiftness. 

Warlocks
- Death Coil - Cooldown reduced, mana cost increased, and now causes a 
  short Fear effect that is not diminished.
- Corruption - Duration reduced and damage per tick increased. Total 
  damage over duration approximately identical.
- Curse of Agony - Duration reduced to 24 seconds and damage per tick 
  increased. Total damage over duration approximately identical.
- Conflagrate - Conflagrate will now correctly remove Immolate rank 4 
  from its victim when cast.
- Bane - Now reduces casting time of the Soul Fire spell in addition 
  to Immolate and Shadow Bolt.
- Intensity - Now reduces chance to be interrupted during cast time of 
  Rain of Fire, Hellfire and Soul Fire spells.
- Pyroclasm - Now gives a chance to stun when Rain of Fire, Hellfire, 
  and Soul Fire spells damage the target.
- Soul Link - Percentage of damage split with pet has been reduced.
- Soul Link - Is now a spell cast on your pet that gives an aura to 
  both you and the pet. This aura increases all damage caused by you 
  and your pet by 3% and splits 30% of all damage taken by the caster 
  to the pet. The aura will last as long as the pet is active, and the 
  pet must be the target of a dispel effect in order to dispel this 
  ability.
- Summon Felhunter - Has a new, unique sound effect.
- Lesser Invisibility (Succubus) - Tooltip updated to reflect actual 
  functionality.
- Fixed a bug that would cause the Master Demonologist buff to be 
  removed if the pet was banished. 

Warriors
- Concussion Blow - Will now initiate combat when used.
- Shoot Bow/Crossbow/Gun - Fixed a bug where these abilities could be 
  used faster than intended.
- Throw - Use of this ability will now only cause a cooldown with Shoot 
  abilities.
- Mortal Strike - Now uses normalized attack power.
- Overpower - Now uses normalized attack power.
- Whirlwind - Now uses normalized attack power.
- Warriors can immediately Intercept after using trinkets to remove 
  immobilizing effects.
- Camera angles when using Charge should be improved. 

Items
- Items which provide +hit chance will now be allowed to counteract the 
  increased miss chance penalty of dual-wielding.
- The 5-piece set bonus for the Warrior's Wrath set now works with 
  Whirlwind.
- The 5-piece set bonus for the Druid's Stormrage set now properly 
  displays the reduction in casting time.
- The Cenarion Druid set bonus that improves Thorns damage now properly 
  works when Thorns is cast on other players.
- Anathema, Benediction, Thunderstrike, and Shadowstrike will now 
  remember the enchantments and durability data they possessed when 
  they transform.
- The ability to transform Rhok'delar and Lok'delar has been removed, 
  but you can talk to Vartrus the Ancient to receive the item you 
  currently don't possess.
- The Drape of Benediction had the statistics and effects of a Superior 
  quality item, but was an Epic item. The item has been improved to 
  have the proper Epic stats.
- The effect of the Admiral's Hat has been changed. You can now click 
  the Admiral's Hat to provide yourself with an aura that gives you and 
  your nearby party members a stamina increase. Taking the hat off will 
  remove the effect. The Headmaster's Charge item has also been changed 
  in a similar manner.
- The Thunderfury effect's spell damage will no longer be increased by 
  other item effects.
- Shard of the Flame and Shard of the Scale are now unique.
- The Resurgence Rod now heals more health over time.
- The Puncture Armor ability found on the Rivenspike, Bashguuder, 
  Digmaster 5000, and Vibroblade will no longer stack with Faerie Fire.
- Chromatic Gauntlets no longer has a listed Holy Resistance bonus, 
  since there is no actual Holy Resistance.
- Ring of Binding and Blade of Eternal Darkness now have appropriate 
  minimum levels.
- Demonic Rune has been changed to a Good (green) item so it will 
  display the bind on pickup dialogue when looted.
- Invulnerability will no longer protect you from a Demonic Rune.
- Deviate Fish changed to appear in the Trade Goods section of the 
  Auction House.
- Jadefire Pants texture fixed.
- The icon for Flash Powder has been changed.
- Shredder Operating Manual pages will no longer drop for the Alliance.
- Gurubashi Helm now properly hides long hair.
- The Sheen of Zanza has a tooltip typo fixed. 

Professions
- There are now alchemy labs that are needed by alchemists to make 
  flasks inside of Blackwing Lair.
- There is now Silithid armor that can be made by leatherworkers. The 
  recipes require Cenarion Circle faction to learn.
- Additional Tailoring and Blacksmithing recipes can be found in 
  encoded messages found on the members of the Twilight's Hammer in 
  Silithus.
- Two additional pieces of Dragonscale Leatherworking were added to the 
  Dragonscale Leatherworking Trainer.
- A Dragonscale Recipe has been added that requires killing the great 
  Green Dragons.
- The Blue, Green, and Black Dragonscale Leatherworking Armor pieces 
  are now parts of sets and have set bonuses so they should be 
  significantly more desirable.
- Green Dragonscale Armor has slightly reduced spirit and now has a 
  stamina component.
- Ironfeather Armor set bonus has been improved.
- Leatherworking item Murloc Scale Belt improved.
- Leatherworking pattern for Black Whelp Tunic added to vendor in 
  Redridge Mountains.
- All Wild Leather patterns for Leatherworking are now bind on acquire.
- All Wild Leather patterns for Leatherworking no longer have cash 
  value with vendors.
- Enchanter-made wands are now Good (green) quality and have had their 
  damage increased.
- The minimum level for the Artisan First Aid, Artisan Fishing, and 
  Artisan Cooking quest lines has been lowered to 35.
- Water Breathing potions will no longer be overwritten by Shaman and 
  Warlock Water Breathing spells if the potion has a longer duration.
- The Pet Healing effect of the Robe of the Void has been improved.
- Expert Alchemy requires 125 skill now instead of 100 skill.
- Free Action Potion text changed to clearly indicate that the potion 
  is not retroactive. No actual change was made other than the text.
- Gnomish Mind Control Cap - Is now subject to diminishing returns in 
  the Charm category.
- Blindweed has been increased in size, making it easier to see. 

Quests
- Added level 50 class quests for the Warrior, Shaman, Paladin, and 
  Warlock. Trainers in the major cities will let you know where to start
  your quest.
- A few new quests have been added in Tanaris. Head over to 
  Steamwheedle Port to see if you can help out.
- The Rin'ji's Secret quest line now has an ending and reward. If you 
  previously finished the Rin'ji's Secret quest out of The Hinterlands, 
  speak with Oran Snakewrithe in the Magic Quarter of the Undercity and 
  select the Oran's Gratitude quest.
- The following repeatable quests have had their levels increased to 
  55: Morrowgrain to Darnassus, Morrowgrain to Feathermoon Stronghold, 
  and Morrowgrain to Thunder Bluff. The net result of this change is 
  that level 56+ characters will notice an increased amount of 
  reputation when turning in Morrowgrain.
- The Thistlewood Axe will no longer be an available option as a quest 
  reward for the Webwood Venom quest.
- The level 30 Mage class quest rewards are now Superior (blue) quality. 

Raids and Dungeons
- Azuregos is now properly resistant to Frost damage.
- Zul'Gurub
   Reduced the damage of the Mad Servant's fireball
   Reduced the number of mad voidwalkers that are summoned from the 
   death of a Mad Servant from three to two.
   High Priestess Mar'li will now despawn her summoned spiders when 
   she returns from combat.
   Slowed the rate at which High Priestess Arlokk's panthers spawn
   Fixed a bug that would prevent High Priestess Jeklik from summoning 
   Frenzied Bloodseeker Bats.
   Fixed a bug that would allow Hakkar's Corrupted Blood ability to 
   target pets. 
- Blackwing Lair
   Razorgore now has the ability to summon players to him if he cannot 
   reach them for a time.
   If you are in front of Chromaggus and can hit him with spells, his 
   breath attack will hit you.
   There is no longer a one-hour time restriction on the Vaelastraz 
   the Corrupt encounter in Blackwing Lair.
   Fixed erratic taunt behavior for Ebonroc, Firemaw, and Flamegor.
   Fixed a bug that was causing Broodlord Lashlayer to do less damage 
   than intended with his Mortal Strike.
   Fixed a bug that caused the debuff "Burning Adrenaline" to be 
   removed if enough other debuffs were applied to the target. 
- Molten Core
   You now receive Core Leather when you skin Magmadar. 

User Interface

- To speed up game loading and reduce memory usage, several portions of 
  the UI have been converted to add-ons. These are completely 
  transparent to the player, but custom add-ons may need to be updated.
- You can now search for random suffixes such as "of the Monkey" in the 
  Auction House.
- Items that are in your action bar and are equipped will now display a 
  green border around them so it's easy to tell which of your action 
  bar items are equipped and therefore usable.
- The Reputation tab will now display on mouseover exactly how many 
  reputation points you need to attain the next reputation level with 
  that faction.
- When you gain reputation, the combat log message will now display 
  the numeric value of how much reputation you gained as well as the 
  previous relative message.
- There is now an option in the interface window to put a translucent 
  pane behind the portraits and health/mana of other party members for 
  easier visibility.
- When you place an auction up on the Auction House, the auctions tab 
  now displays your minimum bid and buyout price even if there are no 
  bids on the item.
- Players should no longer miss loot rolling messages when they're 
  outside of the immediate area. 

World Environment
- Latency upon entering crowded areas, such as Ironforge and Orgrimmar,  
  should be substantially reduced.
- The flight paths in Silithus have been moved from Valor's Rest to the 
  new Cenarion Hold. Characters that previously discovered the Valor's 
  Rest flight path will be treated as having discovered the Cenarion 
  Hold flight path.
- A neutral graveyard has been added to Silithus at Cenarion Hold. With 
  the addition of this graveyard, characters dying in Silithus will be 
  sent to whichever graveyard they are closer to when they die: Valor's 
  Rest or Cenarion Hold.
- Flamekin Imps (Ragers, Spitters and Sprites) in the Burning Steppes 
  now drop Elemental Fire.
- A new weapon merchant who can also repair durability damage on items 
  has moved in to Talonbranch Glade in Felwood.
- The Silithus area map has been modified and its scale has changed.
- Tyr's Hand now has the proper outdoor elite monster respawn time.
- Hearthglen now has the proper outdoor elite respawn time.
- A Graveyard has been added to Duskwood at Ravenhill Cemetery.
- A flight path has been added between Stormwind and Morgan's Vigil.
- Modifications were made to several areas of Azeroth so that the 
  undiscovered areas of the map are revealed easier.
- The Woodpaw Hills sub-area of Feralas now properly grants discovery 
  experience when you enter it for the first time.
- Brackenwall Village now has an arrow on the minimap that points to it 
  when you get within range.
- Sayge’s buffs at the Darkmoon Faire are now exclusive to one another.
- Due to popular demand the general goods vendor in Undercity now sells 
  Morning Glory Dew.
- All graveyards that needed adjustment were changed so that a 
  character's spirit comes into the world facing toward the Spirit 
  Healer.
- Fixed a bug that caused people to fall out of Blackwing Lair during 
  the Nefarian fight. 

Macs
- Enhanced the WoW Error Reporter to be able to intercept some types of 
  errors that were not being handled in 1.7.x.
- Eliminated the "r>=0, r=NaN" assertion frequently seen when utilizing 
  third party UI add-ons. 

Bug Fixes
- Fixed bug where your pet would be both in and out of combat 
  simultaneously when you were dismounted by pursuing creatures.
- You no longer become stuck and unable to loot if you try to open 
  clams and chests while you are a ghost.
- Fixed bug where players would get stuck in the falling animation 
  if they cast an instant-cast spell while jumping.
- Fixed a missile bug that could cause crashes in large battles such 
  as Molten Core, Blackwing Lair, and Arathi Basin.
- Fixed a bug with Win9x where if you started in Windowed mode, the 
  cursor would be stuck and could only be moved from side to side. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.7.1 (2005-09-22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PvP
- Battlegrounds
   Altered geometry in Arathi Basin to prevent a possible exploit.
   
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.7.0 (2005-09-13)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Zul'Gurub
  Hidden within the jungles of Stranglethorn, an ancient Troll city
  full of peril has been uncovered. Do you have what it takes to delve
  into its mysteries with a band of hardy explorers? There's only one
  way to find out! Zul'Gurub is a high-level, 20-man raid instance with
  120 new rare and epic items to uncover. Adventure awaits! 

Arathi Basin
  Join the League of Arathor or the Forsaken Defilers as they battle
  for the precious resources stockpiled within the latest Battleground,
  Arathi Basin! Pitting 15 members of each faction against each other,
  the race is on to be the first to 2000 resources, capturing strategic
  landmarks around the Basin to increase your team's gain and cripple
  the enemy. With an all-new set of reputation-based rewards, there's
  never been a better time to join the war! 

Stranglethorn Fishing Extravaganza
  The Stranglethorn Fishing Extravaganza is a grand new event set along
  the coasts of Stranglethorn Vale. Early on the appointed day,
  friendly neighborhood goblins will visit Ironforge and Orgrimmar to
  inform aspiring anglers of the grand tournament and give
  instructions. At the appropriate time, the shout will ring out across
  Stranglethorn to bait your hooks and cast your lines! 

General
- The debuff limit has been increased to 16 (from 8).  In addition, the
  client will now display all 16 debuffs.
- Switching weapons in combat triggers a 1 second global cooldown for
  all abilities for rogues and a 1.5 second global cooldown for
  everyone else.
- Tauren can now ride wolves if they learn the wolfriding ability.
- Possessed units (e.g. Mind Control, Eyes of the Beast etc...) can now
  cancel combat mode by clearing your current target. In addition, the
  UI will have a gold border when the possessed unit is actively in
  combat mode with the target.
- Several stun spells and abilities that were previously unresistable
  can now be resisted as was always intended.
- Damage absorption no longer protects against falling, drowning, or
  fatigue damage.
- The targeting circles for area effect spells will no longer be
  cancelled when the caster moves.
- Absorbed and resisted environmental damage is now shown in the combat
  log.
- If an attack deals non-physical damage, the type of damage is now
  reported in the combat log.
- Fixed bug where you could kill someone in a duel with spell
  reflection.
- Auras and shapeshift forms can be cancelled while you are fleeing or
  confused.
- Fixed bug where you couldn't right click to attack a hunter who is
  feigning death.
- You can no longer unequip weapons while they are disarmed.
- Debuffs and area effect spells now use their actual cast level rather
  than effective cast level for calculating periodic resistance.
- Escape Artist works with Frost Nova and Frost Trap again.
- Damage absorption is now applied before damage splitting effects.
- Casting spells on your pets and summons will no longer cause guards
  in neutral towns to attack you.
- Fixed a bug where mana was being regenerated while channelling spells
  that use mana.
- Fixed a bug where the Dazed ability used by creatures when attacking
  targets from behind was countered/dispelled by some spells
  (e.g. Blessing of Freedom).
- Fixed a bug where area of effect periodic damage spells were being
  resisted more frequently than they should have been when casting
  lower level ranks of the spell (affected spells were Blizzard,
  Consecration,Explosive Trap, Flamestrike, Hurricane, Rain of Fire and
  Volley).
- Effects that make players immune to physical will no longer be immune
  to the "Recently Bandaged" effect from First Aid.
- Made general improvements to the camera.
- You are no longer able to kill players in duels with reflected DoT
  spells
- Escape Artist works with Frost Nova and Frost Trap.
- When you swap weapons in combat, you start your swing again, instead
  of continuing your last swing.
- Fixed bug where self-inflicted damage, like Poisonous Blood, wouldn't
  break stealth.
- When an attribute increasing effect (e.g. Arcane Intellect) is
  refreshed on a target, it will no longer reset the target's health or
  mana and then increase the total.
- Pets now switch to a new target if possible when their current target
  is polymorphed.
- Meeting Stones
   A number of miscellaneous improvements have been made that should
   allow for better group forming when using the meeting stones.
   You will no longer be kicked from the meeting stone queue when a
   player declines a group invite or when inviting someone that is 
   already in a group.
   You will now be informed that you have left the meeting stone queue
   when the group leader logs out.
   Tanks and Healers will now be immediately added to the group by the
   meeting stone when they are the 5th member of the group.
   You can now be added to a group by the meeting stone when that group
   contains characters that have disconnected. 

PvP
- Battlegrounds
   Battleground "holidays" have been added to Warsong Gulch, Alterac
   Valley and Arathi Basin. Holidays occur during most weekends,
   starting on Thursday night at midnight and continuing until Tuesday
   morning.
   During a holiday, emmissaries from that Battleground will be found
   in the major cities, and honor/faction rewards for performing
   objectives in that battleground are increased.
   Warsong Gulch and Arathi Basin will now be level-banded as follows:
   20-29, 30-39, 40-49, 50-59, 60.
   System Messages have been added to Warsong Gulch to replace the
   heralds.
   Losers of Warsong Gulch are now given a "Ribbon of Sacrifice" which
   they may turn in to Captain Shatterspear or Sentinel Farsong for a
   faction reward.
   Offensive use of damage immunities no longer causes the flag to drop
   in Warsong Gulch.
   In the Battlegrounds, you will now automatically be resurrected by
   Spirit Healers unless you choose to decline.
   A bug that allowed ghost players to pass through the Warsong Gulch
   starting gate has been fixed.
   Alterac Valley now correctly rewards honor for owning graveyards at
   the end of the game.
   Characters that use the Battlemaster to enter a Battleground will
   now port back to that Battlemaster when they leave the Battleground
   for any reason.
   Fixed range check for removing insignia from players in
   Battlegrounds.
   Fixed a bug that would cause players to stand up when a turnin was
   made in Alterac Valley.
   Players will no longer be able to gain health by repeatedly entering
   and leaving the effect of a Battle Standard.
   Entering a battleground now resets the timer for the AFK flag. This
   should prevent players being kicked by the AFK timer moments after
   they enter the Battleground instance.
   Using the /who command while in a Battleground instance will now
   only display players in your instance. 
   The requirement to purchase special Food and Bandage consumables for
   Warsong Gulch and Arathi Basin has been lowered; they are now
   available for use at Friendly and Honored, respectively.
   battleground queue functionality has been improved to eliminate
   certain types of "traffic jams" that could prevent instances from
   starting.
- Consecration and other similar spells can no longer be used by
  non-PvP
  flagged players to damage PvP flagged enemies.
- Racial "Leaders" have been strengthened, and are now worth slightly
  less honor.
- Players may no longer purchase items that require a PvP rank unless
  they meet the rank requirement at the time of purchase. 

Druids
- Improved Starfire - The stun effect can now be resisted.
- Druids should now be able to shapeshift back into caster form while
  Feared.
- Cat Form - The base weapon damage of the form has been increased.
- Cat Form - Each point of agility now adds 1 attack power.
- Cat Form - Rip's damage per combo point has been increased.
- Cat Form - Ferocious Bite's damage per combo point has been increased
  In addition, extra energy now converts to damage at a higher rate.
- Cat Form - Replaced global cooldown on Tiger's Fury with a 1 second
  self cooldown. In addition, its duration has been increased to 6
  seconds.
- Cat Form - Rake's damage has been increased. 
- Entangling Roots now shares the same duration in pvp as other
  long-duration forms of crowd control (ie: polymorph, fear, sap).


Hunters
- Due to significant talent changes, Hunters will have all talent
  points refunded and can be respent. Training costs for all talent
  spell/ability replacements have been significantly reduced.
- Survival and Beast Master talent trees have undergone major revisions
  in an effort to give Hunters additional, viable choices when
  selecting talents.
- Deterrence - Will now increase parry chance when using Fist Weapons.
- Deflection - Will now increase parry chance when using Fist Weapons.
- Improved Concussive Shot - The stun effect can now be resisted.
- Trueshot Aura - Attack Power and Ranged Attack Power bonus increased,
  mana cost decreased, area of effect increased.
- Frost Trap - Updated tooltip to reflect duration of the Frost 
  Trap Effect.
- Aimed Shot - Fixed tooltip to correctly display shot time.
- Auto Shot - Fixed a bug where switching targets would cancel Auto
  Shot. Switching targets should now continue firing on the newly
  acquired target.
- Scatter Shot - Should now cancel combat mode when used.
- Eyes of the Beast - Cast time reduced.
- Flare - Fixed the tooltip to accurately reflect the actual radius of
  the effect.
- Ranged Weapon Specialization - Now affects all ranged weapon attacks
  (e.g. Arcane Shot).
- Improved Concussive Shot - Will now have a chance to stun targets
  that are afflicted with other slowing effects (e.g. Wing Clip).
- Hawk Eye and Barrage have swapped locations, and we added 1 more rank
  to Barrage.
- Freezing Trap now shares the same duration in pvp as other
  long-duration forms of crowd control (ie: polymorph, fear, sap).
- The resist rate for hunter traps is now based on the hunter's skill
  rather than the level of the trap.
- Pet Abilities
   Hunters now have the first round of pet customization available. New
   passive abilities include increased armor, stamina, Fire resistance,
   Frost resistance, Nature resistance, Shadow resistance, and Arcane
   resistance.
   Hunter pets can now be untrained of all their skills from
   any beast trainer in the major cities. Similar to talents,
   untraining a specific pet scales up as you do it more times: 10
   silver, 50 silver, 1 gold, 2 gold, 3 gold, etc., eventually stopping
   at 10 gold.
   Training point costs for all abilities have been rebalanced. You'll
   now be able to use all your pet's training points with meaningful
   choices. To help make "hunting" pets more viable in more situations,
   the Growl ability is now free to all pets.
   Bats, owls, and carrion birds can now learn the Screech ability, a
   fast single-target attack that also lowers the attack power of all
   enemies within melee range of the pet.
   Cats can now learn Stealth. In addition to being unseen, they
   receive a damage bonus for their first attack coming out of stealth.
   Scorpids can now learn Scorpid Poison. The poison deals Nature
   damage over time and stacks up to five times on a single enemy.
   Wolves can now learn Furious Howl. The howl adds a flat amount of
   damage to all nearby party member's next attack (within 15 yards). 
- Hunter pets now gain experience based on the level difference between
  them and their target rather than the difference between the Hunters
  and their target. This will make it much easier to level up a low
  level pet. Keep in mind that the Hunter must still kill creatures
  from which he/she will gain experience.
- The tooltips for quick Hunter shots have been updated to show them as
  instant abilities.
- Feign death is no longer resisted by players.
- Hunters are now able to rename their pets while mounted.
- Hunter's pets will be smarter about when to use Dash/Dive.
- Fixed bug where Aimed Shot wouldn't cancel properly when the target
  moves out of range.
- Fixed a bug where lower level versions of Immolation Trap and
  Explosive Trap were being resisted more than they should be.

Paladins
- New Spell: Hammer of Wrath (Level 44) - Hurls a hammer that strikes
  an enemy for Holy damage. Only usable on a wounded target.
- Blessing of Sacrifice no longer shares damage with dead Paladins
  (You can no longer kill Paladin Ghosts).
- Paladins can no longer activate Divine Favor on the previously cast
  healing spell. 
- Seal of the Crusader - Fixed a bug that displayed the incorrect
  amount of attack power increased by ranks 2, 3 and 5 of the spell.

Priests
- Focused Casting - Mana cost removed. Now no longer triggers the
  global cooldown on all other spells.
- Vampiric Embrace - Now heals 20% of the damage actually caused
  (including critical hits, buffs etc...) but now only heals when
  shadow spells cause the damage.
- Switching to Shadow Form no longer cancels Holy buffs on a priest.
- You can cancel melee combat while mind controlling by clearing the
  target, like you can normally. 
- Blackout - Fixed a bug where rank 2 of the talent wasn't giving a
  chance to stun.


Rogues
- Riposte - Will now initiate combat when used.
- Deflection - Will now increase parry chance when using Fist Weapons.
- Mace Specialization - The stun effect can now be resisted.
- Shoot Bow/Gun/Crossbow - Should no longer cause a global cooldown on
  all other abilities.
- The fire damage from the Blazefury Medallion and the Gutgore Ripper's
  effect should no longer immediately break Gouge. 
- Riposte - Fixed a bug where the ability was not usable when a special
  attack (e.g. Gouge) is parried.

Warlocks
- Inferno - The stun effect can now be resisted. Tooltip updated to
  reflect enslave duration after the initial summon.
- Spell Lock (Felhunter) - In addition to interrupting spellcasting, it
  will now silence the target for a short duration.
- Benefits received from the old Master Conjuror talent should now be
  removed on all Warlocks.
- Firestone - When a Firestone is equipped, it should no longer 
  interrupt tradeskill creation.
- Demonic Sacrifice - All effects gained from sacrificing the pet
  should no longer be dispellable.
- Conflagrate - The Conflagrate spell is now instant cast. The damage
  and mana cost has been raised on all ranks of the spell.
- Fear will now cause creatures to flee immediately, even if they are
  already moving.
- Succubus pets will be smarter about when to use Seduction.
- Succubus pets can now autocast Lesser Invisibility.
- Fixed a bug where Fear and Curse of Recklessness, when used together,
  would prevent targets from casting spells. 
- Fixed a bug where Soul Link and Power Word: Sheild, when used
  together, would heal the Warlock instead of splitting or absorbing
  damage. 
- Demon Armor - The armor increase will now stack together with
  Scrolls of Protection.

Warriors
- Deflection - Will now increase parry chance when using Fist Weapons.
- Retaliation - Will now cause a maximum of 30 retaliatory strikes in
  15 seconds. In addition, retaliatory strikes will not be possible 
  while stunned.
- Improved Revenge - The stun effect can now be resisted.
- Mace Specialization - The stun effect can now be resisted.
- Retaliation, Recklessness and Shield Wall will no longer be cancelled
  if you switch stances while the effect is active.
- Shield Slam - Threat caused increased.
- Shoot Bow/Gun/Crossbow - Should no longer cause a global cooldown on
  all other abilities. 
- Sweeping Strikes will now ignore dead targets, and will ignore PvP
  enabled targets if you are not PvP enabled.

Items
- We have determined that the defense statistic was being applied to
  items too liberally, causing those items to be stronger than they
  should have been relative to other items of the same level with
  different effects. As a result, we have reduced the amount of defense
  points on all items with bonuses to defense by approximately 33% in
  order to bring those items in line with other similar items.
- Proficiency Bonuses have been added to the game. Some sets of
  equippable items have been added that will give bonus effects to the
  player only if they have a specific skill, such as Leatherworking.
- With the new ability to train Hunter pets with considerable magical
  resistance, the amount of pet resistance granted by the set bonuses
  for the Giantstalker's and Dragonstalker's has been reduced while the
  pet health granted has been increased.
- The Earthfury set bonus that increases the range of totems now works
  with the Mana Tide Totem.
- The Giantstalker's set bonus that increases Volley damage now works
  properly.
- The Lawbringer Paladin Set's Healing Circle effect now only affects
  your party, but the range of the heal has been increased to 30 yds.
- The pants and gloves for the Dreadmist, Magister's and Devout sets
  have had their Agility removed, and other statistics slightly
  increased.
- The free mana cost buff provided by the Mage's Netherwind armor set
  is now called "Netherwind Focus" and will be noted in your combat
  log.
- The effect of the Judge's Gavel has been changed to a stun.
- Flarecore Gloves now bind when equipped.
- Flarecore Leggings and Robe now provide a damage bonus to all spells,
  not just fire spells.
- The duration of the Bonereaver's Edge weapon debuff has been lowered,
  but the frequency of the effect has been raised.
- The Polychromatic Visionwrap is now a cloth item with durability.
- The Searing Needle's proc will now do the listed damage of the
  tooltip.
- The Unstoppable Force now has a short duration stun instead of a
  knockback effect, and the stun will occur less frequently.
- Changing stances no longer removes the Orb of Deception effect.
- When you have more than one transformation aura (Orb of Deception,
  Noggenfogger, etc.), the last one applied is the one that is shown.
- Several of the Molten Core Epic Weapons have been updated with new
  weapon glows.
- Totems affected by the Earthfury set bonus no longer have their
  effect flicker when players are outside their normal radius.
- Fixed bug preventing several items, such as the Goblin Jumper Cables,
  from being gift wrapped.
- Fixed bug where equipping and unequipping set items and other items
  with the same bonus as the set bonus could reduce the affected stats
  twice until logout.
- Sayge's Dark Fortune of Resistance now adds +25 to all schools
  instead of +10%.
- PvP reward gloves that grant stealth detection have had the detection
  reduced somewhat.
- There are now items in the game that have a duration on them that is
  measured in real time. For instance, there are fish that have a
  four-hour duration; they only last four hours regardless of whether
  or not the character is logged in.
- Alterac Valley Spring Water now has a minimum level of 55.
- The Lobotomizer's proc name has been changed to "Brain Damage".
- Corrected the art for the Nether-lace Tunic.
- The Marshal's Lamellar Legplates now have the proper strength bonus.
- The Fire Runed Grimoire and Darkmoon Card: Heroism are now properly
  considered armor items.
- The spirit buff from Bottled Alterac Spring Water should now work for
  shapeshifted druids.
- The Marshal's Silk Gloves now has the Mana Shield improvement effect.
- The effect tooltips for The Black Book, Gutgore Ripper, and Natural
  Alignment Crystal now properly list their duration.
- Scout's Blade now properly sheathes at the hip.
- A few items in the Alliance PvP Rogue and Druid sets were previously
  misnamed, this has been corrected.
- The Cenarion and Earthfury Vestments now have proper durability
  values.
- The Sergeant Major's Silk Cuffs and First Sergeant's Silk Cuffs now
  have the same amount of stamina.
- The stun from the Tidal Charm trinket no longer breaks when damage is
  dealt to the stunned target.
- The Fade effect on the Stealthblade will no longer trigger the
  cooldown for the Rogue's Feint ability.
- The effect of Black Amnesty will now be noted in the combat log.
- Rethban Ore, Black Diamonds, and Pristine Black Diamonds may now be
  found in the Miscellaneous Junk category of the Auction House.
- Blue Wedding Hanbok name changed to reflect the actual color of the
  dress.
- The minimum level 48 Lorekeeper's Ring and Advisor's Ring now
  properly consider their effects to be passive.
- Hair should no longer stick through the Helm of Endless Rage.
- Key to the City is now considered Uncommon loot.
- The Amulet and Orb of the Darkmoon have had their stats improved and
  are now Epic (purple).
- Fishing poles which provide the same bonuses as lures now get the
  extra bonus from the lure when it is applied.
- Fixed bug where moving enchanted weapons from one hand to the other
  would remove the equipped enchantment benefit.
- Fixed bug where swapping two equipped trinkets would remove one of
  the trinket's passive effects.
- Night Dragon's Breath can now be used while silenced.
- Texture for the Dragon's Touch wand corrected.
- Bind on Equip Bracers and Belts in Molten Core now drop more often.
- Cenarion Helm texture fixed.
- Invulnerable Mail changed to a lower duration effect, but your own
  melee swings will not interrupt the invulnerability.

Pets
- You can now modify the auto-cast status of pet spells in the pet
  spellbook. 

Professions
- New crafted sets have been added that require reagents found only in
  Zul'Gurub or through the reputation gained from adventuring therein.
- Only spells and abilities that target enemy units will cancel the
  World Enlarger effect.
- Black Lotus is no longer soulbound.
- Blackfury and Black Amnesty now bind when equipped.
- Catseye Goggles have had their stealth detection increased somewhat.
- The Mooncloth Robe pattern changed so it displays as white quality
  instead of blue since it is vendor purchased.
- The Effects of Flasks will now persist through death.
- Free Action potions can now be dispelled.
- Wildvine potions have been improved.
- Dreamless Sleep potions now take full effect in 12 seconds instead
  of 15.
- There is now a Horde cooking recipe that uses Tender Crocolisk Meat
  found at Brackenwall Village.
- Dark Iron Boots have been added as Blacksmithing plans that require
  Exalted reputation with the Thorium Brotherhood.
- Timbermaw Reputation Recipes are no longer sold in limited quanities
  with a restock time. If you have the reputation, you will always be
  able to buy the recipe.
- Significantly more Stranglekelp has started washing ashore to the
  beaches of the world.
- Dark Iron mineral nodes will now sometimes appear in the Burning
  Steppes and Searing Gorge.
- Enchanting an item with an enchantment that will cause the item to
  become soulbound will now prompt the enchanter with a warning message
  before the enchantment is cast.
- The Gnomish Death Ray now only can be cast if the target is within 20
  yards. Previously you could cast this on players outside that range,
  even though the spell immediately failed.
- Cured Rugged hides now stack to 10 instead of 5. 

Quest
- A great number of quests and events added to Zul'Gurub.
- A level 50 class quest has been added for the Rogue (Lord Ravenholdt
  in Ravenholdt Manor), Priest (Greta Mosshoof in Felwood), Mage
  (Archmage Xylem in Azshara), and Hunter (Ogtinc in Azshara).
- Reputation gains given to a player on the Alliance, Horde, or
  Steamwheedle Cartel factions directly will now cascade down to member
  factions through the middle of the Exalted reputation level.
- The summoning crystals of Andorhal have been removed; as a result,
  Araj the Summoner will behave like a normal spawn. The respawn time
  on Araj once he is slain is 10-15 minutes. It should be noted that
  the spawns surrounding where he holds dominion have been maintained;
  players seeking to defeat him should not be shy about bringing
  friends with them.
- Araj the Summoner now has increased hit points and does increased
  melee damage.
- Araj the Summoner no longer drops a Corruptor's Scourgestone 100% of
  the time when killed.
- The text for the Horde and Alliance versions of "Araj's Scarab" now
  reflect the changes done to the Araj encounter.
- The text for the Horde and Alliance versions of "Alas, Andorhal" now
  reflect the changes done to the Araj encounter.
- The Argent Dawn quest "The Active Agent" now offers a choice of
  rewards: Seal of the Dawn and Rune of the Dawn. Both may be used just
  like an Argent Dawn Commission.
- Players seeking to replace their Seal of the Dawn (or get a Rune of 
  the Dawn instead) once they've finished "The Active Agent" quest
  should speak with Betina Bigglezink in Eastern Plaguelands.
- The Seal of the Dawn is now unique, no longer has any cash value, and
  is no longer disenchantable.
- The level 5 quests had the ranged weapon removed from their reward
  options. This was done to make sure hunters upgrade their melee
  damage in the levels before obtaining a pet.
- Added text to the Test of Endurance quest to indicate you might need
  to bring some friends along.
- The amount of XP and Stormwind reputation has been increased for
  completing "Hilary's Necklace" quest.
- Torek in Ashenvale (the questgiver for Torek's Assault) is now PvP
  enabling.
- Important Blackrock Documents for the Horde quest, "Warlord's 
  Command," no longer despawn. They can still randomly spawn at one of
  four locations.
- Two new quests have been added to Thorium Point in the Searing Gorge
  for Thorium Brotherhood reputation turnin for players with neutral
  faction. You will now be able to turn in Iron and Heavy Leather to
  increase your reputation with the Brotherhood.
- "The Darkreaver Menace" quest has had its reward improved; any Shaman
  who has already completed the quest should speak to Sagorne
  Creststrider in Orgrimmar to get their new reward.
- The Boulderslide Ravine quest in Stonetalon Mountains now more
  clearly points players to the Boulderslide Ravine.
- The original Hakkar quest (the one that involved killing Hakkar's
  Avatar in the Sunken Temple) has been extended, and now offers a
  reward.
- Completing the initial Magram or Gelkis quest in Desolace now gives
  appropriate positive and negative reputation gains.
- The completion dialogue for the "A Rogue's Deal" quest has been
  clarified.
- All 8 versions of the "A Donation of Runecloth" quest have had their
  quest text clarified.
- Certain mobs and NPCs that erroneously had plus or minus reputation
  gains on kills for Horde or Alliance have been corrected.
- Various quest typos fixed. 

Raids and Dungeons
- Characters will now receive an error when attempting to enter a raid
  dungeon if the reason they cannot enter is because they are not in a
  raid group.
- Fixed a bug that was preventing Rallying Cry of the Dragon Slayer to
  fire when Onyxia's head was turned in (assuming a head was not
  already up).
- You can now no longer avoid Onyxia's confuse effect by jumping or
  moving erratically.
- Death Knight Darkreaver in Scholomance shouldn't be so noisy anymore.
- The Ogre Tannin Basket in Dire Maul should stick around longer if
  someone opens it and does not initially loot the tannin from it.
- A few Molten Core bosses now drop Fiery or Lava Cores. 

User Interface
- New "Dressing Room" Interface now available! If you control-left
  click on any item, item reference (vendors, quests) or item link
  (chat), a UI panel will appear showing your character wearing that
  item. You can then use the same command (control-left click) on
  additional items to add to the preview appearance. In addition, the
  Auction House now has a checkbox in the upper right-hand corner; if
  checked, any item you click on within the Auction House will
  automatically be previewed on your character.
- Need Before Greed and Group Loot options have been improved. The
  rolling window that appears when an item of the threshold and above
  is looted now has three buttons: a Need button (the dice), a Greed
  button (the coin), and a close button. Any players who select Need
  will get a chance to roll first for the item, with the high roller
  winning. If no one selects Need, all characters who selected Greed
  will then roll,with the highest roll winning the item. If everyone
  closes the window, the item becomes lootable by anyone in the group.
- You can now disable the slow scrolling of text when you are receiving
  a new quest.
- Opening the overhead map will now "ping" your location your map (to
  make it easier to notice your location when there are many friendlies
  nearby on the overhead map).
- The overhead map now displays a directional icon for your character.
- Spell effects that stack multiple times on a character will now
  display a number in the bottom corner indicating how many times the
  effect has stacked. For example, if a player has had the Sunder Armor
  ability used on them three times, the Sunder Armor effect icon will
  display a 3 in the corner.
- A confirmation dialog is now shown when you choose to make an Inn
  your home.
- The tooltip for spells like Seal of the Crusader correctly reflects
  the benefit of the spell, instead of occasionally being off by one.
- Using /random will now send the text to your party or raid wherever
  they are instead of the local area around the player that used
  /random.
- When in a raid group, the group you are in will now appear above your
  name next to your portrait.
- Mail recipient name completion now works with offline guild members
  even if you are not showing them in the guild UI.
- Guild ranks and player notes are now filtered by the profanity
  filter.
- The temporary mana cost reduction of Burst of Knowledge and similar
  effects is now reflected in tooltips.
- Quest rewards are now linked in chat like other items gained.
- You can auto-equip items while in flight by right clicking on them,
  as you would normally.
- Fixed bug preventing the Release Spirit dialog from showing if you
  die while jumping in lava.
- You can now use the Escape key to exit out of pop up dialogues.
- Fixed lua error when relinking poor and standard quality items from
  loot messages.
- Consumable items on the action bar will now always show the number
  remaining, even if there are none in your inventory.
- You can create the directory Interface\Icons, and any 32x32 .blp or
  .tga files you put in there will be available in the icon list for
  your macros.
- Pet spells in macros are now supported, both using /cast and using
  CastSpellByName().
- If you omit the rank of a spell in /cast or CastSpellByName(), it
  will use the highest rank of the spell which you know.
- While it will still be possible to override files in
  Interface/FrameXML, doing so is discouraged (and is likely to become
  impossible in a future release). Significant API additions are being
  made to eliminate the need for such direct FrameXML changes.
- You will now be able to list .lua files directly in the addon
  .toc file.
- The SetPoint() and SetAllPoints() script functions can take an actual
  frame instead of a frame name.
- TargetNearest* script functions will only work in response to a
  button click or a key binding, to discourage addons which scan the
  battlefield for targets.
- Addon-specific Saved Variables!
   Each addon's saved variables will be saved in the file
   WTF\Account\{accountname}\SavedVariables\{addonname}.lua, and will
   only be loaded when the addon is loaded.
     IMPORTANT: The first time you enter the game with this change, you
     must make sure all your addons are enabled, or their saved
     variables will be lost! If you accidentally do this once, you can
     recover by quitting the game, moving your backup SavedVariables.
     lua into place and restarting the game with addons enabled.

- Addon Loading On Demand!
   If you add the following line to your addon's .toc file, it will not
   be loaded at the normal load time, it will instead be dynamically
   loaded upon request:

            ## LoadOnDemand: 1

            You can query to see if an addon is loaded by using the new
            IsAddOnLoaded("addonname") function, and you can load an
            addon dynamically using the LoadAddOn("addonname") function.
            This function returns true if the addon is loaded
            successfully, and can be safely and efficiently called even
            if the addon is already loaded.

            For your convenience, the function
            UIParentLoadAddOn("addonname") is provided which will
            attempt to load the addon and pop up an error message if it
            failed to load for any reason.

            Once an addon is loaded, the ADDON_LOADED event is sent,
            with arg1 set to the name of the addon. An addon can listen
            for that event, and when it recieves that event with it's
            own name, it can safely access its saved variables.

            An important thing to note is that when an addon is loaded
            dynamically, it doesn't have access to any of the virtual
            frame templates that are defined by FrameXML, including
            font definitions.

- New Scripting Functions
   debugprofilestart() - starts a timer for profiling during debugging.
   millis = debugprofilestop() - return the time in milliseconds since
   the last call to debugprofilestart() 
- New UI Element Member Functions
   handlerFunction = Frame:GetScript("handler") - (for handlers like
   "OnShow", "OnEnter", etc) which returns the current event handler
   for a frame.
   Frame:SetScript("handler", function) - sets the action/event handler
   for a frame (or removes it with a nil function)
   Frame:SetBackdrop(nil) / Frame:SetBackdrop({bgFile = "bgFile",
   edgeFile = "edgeFile", tile = false, tileSize = 0, edgeSize = 32,
   insets = { left = 0, right = 0, top = 0, bottom = 0 }}) (Note: This
   is a table argument)
   FontString:SetFont("font", size [, "flags"]).
   StatusBar:SetStatusBarTexture("file" [, "layer"])
   lines = ScrollingMessageFrame:GetMaxLines()
   ScrollingMessageFrame:SetMaxLines(lines)
   ScrollingMessageFrame:EnableFading([isEnabled]) (Defaults to true)
   ScrollingMessageFrame:SetFadeDuration(seconds)
   ScrollingMessageFrame:SetTimeVisible(seconds)
   ScrollingMessageFrame:Clear()
   lines = EditBox:GetHistoryLines()
   EditBox:SetHistoryLines(lines)
   EditBox:SetIgnoreArrows([isIgnored]) (Defaults to true)
   r,g,b,a = FontString:GetTextColor() 
   Frame:SetParent(nil, or "parent" or parentFrame)
   numChildren = Frame:GetNumChildren()
   child1, child2, child3, ... = Frame:GetChildren()
- Addon Saved Variables
   SavedVariables will no longer drop stored numbers to single 
   precision.
   Infinite/Nan values no longer cause corrupted SavedVariables.lua
   file.(Written as nils with comment) 
- Chat and Combat Logging
   The script functions ChatFrameLog() and ToggleCombatLogFileWrite()
   are obsolete.
   Added script function: isLogging=LoggingChat([newState]) (Returns
   new state (or current state if no argument))
   Added script function: isLogging=LoggingCombat([newState]) (Returns
   new state (or current state if no argument))
   New slash command /chatlog toggles chat logging (/combatlog toggles
   combat logging)
   The file for the chat log is Logs\WoWChatLog.txt and the file for
   the combat log is Logs\WoWCombatLog.txt
   Chat and combat log files will be appended to rather than
   overwritten.
   You now receive combat log messages and damage feedback when you are
   being attacked by creatures you can't see.
   If you call a tamed Deepmoss Hatchling, you are no longer notified
   that you hatched.
   Fixed disconnection caused by relinking an item in a different
   locale than that of your client.
   Looted items now always show their names in the appropriate quality
   color. 
   You now get combat feedback when you take damage from unseen
   opponents, like the Unseen in Raven Hill.
   Fixed damage display on the character sheet when you have Fury of
   the Frostwolf or Stormpike's Salvation.

World Environment
- The Ranazjar Isle sub-area has been added off the northwest coast of
  Desolace. The Ranazjar Isle puzzle piece now properly pops when you
  venture there.
- Entering the zeppelin towers at Durotar and Grom'gol Base Camp no
  longer incorrectly flags you as being in the Valley of Strength.
- Argent Dawn, Timbermaw, Zandalar and Arathi Basin vendors now show
  you their entire inventory regardless of current reputation, allowing
  players to peruse their full range of wares. The items in question
  now require the appropriate reputation level to make use of them.
- Some of the ship and zeppelin paths have been modified.
- Gor'tesh and Grol the Destroyer should no longer stay in evade mode
  indefinitely.
- A new inn has been added to the Grom'gol Base Camp in Stranglethorn
  Vale at the base of the zeppelin tower.
- The Champion's Hall and the Hall of Legends have new load screens.
- Some Horde quest NPCs were moved to new locations to promote more
  intuitive quest flow: Storm Shadowhoof who was previously at 
  Bloodvenom Falls in Felwood has been moved to Everlook. Witch Doctor
  Mau'ari who was previously in Orgrimmar has been moved to Everlook.
- Scorpids above level 10 now drop more valuable parts than they did
  previously.
- Rare Felwood creatures should now have loot.
- Twilight's Hammer creatures in Silithus can now be pickpocketed.
- Zone bound items, such as the Gordok Courtyard Key, will no longer
  leave your inventory if you are a ghost outside their intended zone.
  Reviving in a zone outside the item's listed zone binding will still
  cause the item to disappear, however.
- Pelturas Whitemoon's faction has been fixed; the NPC is now properly
  associated with Darnassus.
- Narm Faulk is now a part of the Ironforge Faction.
- Hadoken Swiftstrider now has gossip text.
- Ferra can now be skinned.
- Fixed a typo in Ogunaro Wolfrunner's greeting to those who are not
  yet friendly with Orgrimmar.
- Fixed a typo on a signpost in Western Plaguelands. 
- Sayge’s buffs at the Darkmoon Faire are now exclusive to one another.
- Onyxia no longer teleports from point to point while flying.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.6.1 (2005-08-02)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 General
- Spell casting is no longer interrupted when leaving combat. 

 Warriors
- Improved Shield Block - Fixed a bug where Rank 3 of the talent was 
  not granting the extra block.
- Bloodthirst - Damage bonus increased to 40% of attack power. 

 Items
- The Oil of Immolation effect is no longer affected by bonuses to 
  spell damage from items. 

 Raids & Dungeons
- Blackwing Lair
   Several encounters in Blackwing Lair now cause the front gate to 
   close, preventing players from zoning out or joining an in-progress 
   battle.
   The Razorgore encounter has been changed slightly to make it less 
   "random". The spawning should be more consistent throughout the 
   fight.
   The timer for Vaelastrasz the Corrupt is now more persistent. You 
   can no longer reset the one-hour time limit for beating him by 
   leaving the instance. Also, Vaelastrasz the Corrupt will not respawn 
   for 12 hours if he has not been beaten when the timer expires.
   The drakes in Blackwing Lair will no longer leave the lab. 
- Maraudon
   Lowered experience values for Creeping Sludge. 

 Macs
- Increased the maximum number of sounds which can be played 
  simultaneously. This will fix problems where some sounds could be 
  dropped in very busy situations.
- Fixed WoW Error Reporter so that it doesn't crash under Mac OS X 
  10.4 when trying to send an error report.
- Worked around an issue where you would lose your Expose/Dashboard 
  preferences if you crashed or asserted while in fullscreen mode on 
  Mac OS X 10.4.
- Fixed the "blockWidth", "srec", and "bitnum < m_numBits" assertions 
  bugs that would crash the game.
- Fixed a bug involving corpses near the player that could result in a 
  crash ("BusError"). 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.6.0 (2005-07-12)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Blackwing Lair Released!
  Nefarian's sanctum, Blackwing Lair, can be found at the very height
  of Blackrock Spire. It is there in the dark recesses of the 
  mountain's peak that Nefarian has begun to unfold the final stages of
  his plan to destroy Ragnaros once and for all and lead his army to 
  undisputed supremacy over all the races of Azeroth.  Blackwing Lair 
  is a max-level, 40-player raid dungeon, with many new encounters and 
  tempting rewards awaiting the intrepid adventurer that dares enter 
  its halls.

Darkmoon Faire!
  A gathering of the exotic from around the world and beyond, Silas 
  Darkmoon has brought together the Darkmoon Faire as a celebration of
  the wondrous and mysterious found in Azeroth.  While the Faire spends
  most of their time in parts unknown, they do stop from time to time 
  in Mulgore and Elwynn forest.   When the faire is on its way barkers 
  will stop by Ogrimmar and Ironforge to announce its arrival.

Battlemasters!
  There is a new way to enter the battleground queues.  Battlemasters!
  Located in some of the cities, right-clicking on a battlemaster will
  allow your character to enter a battleground queue just like you 
  normally would if you touched that battleground’s entrance portal.  
  The functionality is exactly the same, so when it’s your character’s
  time to enter the chosen battleground, you will be teleported 
  directly in.  Glordrum Steelbeard stands in the Hall of Arms in 
  Ironforge, serving as the Alliance battlemaster for Alterac Valley.  
  Aethalas of the Silverwing Sentinels stands ready in Darnassus, next
  to the warrior trainers, to send Alliance characters into Warsong 
  Gulch.  And in the Hall of the Brave, located in Orgrimmar’s Valley 
  of Honor, Brakgul Deathbringer serves as the Horde’s battlemaster 
  for Warsong Gulch, while Kartra Bloodsnarl will send you to bring 
  glory to the Horde in Alterac Valley. Guards in their respective 
  cities can give you directions on how to find them.

General
- There is a new option upon the login screen.  If you click the 
  "Remember Name" checkbox on the left side of the screen, the game 
  will automatically fill in your account name when it starts up.
- Will of the Forsaken (Undead Racial) - duration of the lasting 
  immunity effect decreased to 5 seconds.
- Cannibalize (Undead Racial) - Regeneration increased to 35% of a
  character's total health over 10 seconds.
- Stoneform (Dwarf Racial) - can now be used to cancel self-inflicted 
  poison effects.
- Fist Weapons will now have the normal chance to parry that all 
  weapons use. 
- It will no longer be possible to swap any equipment while stunned. 
- Pets will now enter passive/follow mode when their masters mount.
- The Dazed effect caused by NPCs will now stack with all other
  movement slowing effects.  Note that the movement slowing effects 
  will not stack, but the debuff icons will remain to ensure the full 
  duration of these effects persist.
- Damage caused by environmental effects will now cancel stealth (e.g. 
  swimming in lava).
- Several creature spells that silenced players are now properly 
  flagged as silence effects, which will allow talents such as 
  Unbreakable Will to provide a higher chance to resist the effects. 
- Spells that drain mana will now properly report the amount of mana 
  gained in the combat log.
- Clarified the error message when no corpses are available for the 
  Cannibalize ability.
- Clarified the error message when trying to attack while mounted.
- Resurrection spells should now check range properly when used on 
  targets that have released their spirit.
- Spell reflection effects have greatly improved visuals and 
  functionality.
- Knockback effects are now synchronized with any associated missile
  impacts.
- Special abilities which are parried will correctly activate abilities
  which are usable after parrying.
- Damage shield spells no longer damage you if you use spells that 
  damage both you and your enemies.
- Fixed graphical anomalies when using channeled abilities in a group 
  with a grounding totem.
- Fixed the duration of Frostbite on pets which are dismissed and then
  recalled.
- Fixed a bug where broken off-hand fist weapons would prevent main-
  hand dagger abilities from being usable
- Health leech effects no longer give you health while you are a ghost.
- You no longer spout profanity when talking about sitting while drunk.

Macintosh
- Some optimizations for terrain loading and rendering were added for 
  the Macintosh build.
- Enabled multisample support in the video options.
- Fixed an issue where inspecting crafted items on other users could 
  potentially show attributes that those items did not have.
- Updated the Mac sound code to use memory more efficiently.

PvP
- Honor System
   There is now a progress bar on the Honor tab of your character 
   window that displays how close you are to your next rank.
   There is a new "This Week" section of the Honor tab, which will 
   display PvP accomplishments of the current week.
   The honor screen now displays a bar indicating how far along 
   your current rank you are (Scout, Private, etc). This will 
   let you know whether you are moving towards your next rank or 
   falling back towards your previous rank.
   The "This Session" section of the Honor tab has been changed to 
   "Today", and will now display the entirety of your accomplishments 
   for the day instead of the most recent session.
   Players rank 11 or higher can now chat in the WorldDefense channel.
   The WorldDefense and LocalDefense channels will now display your 
   rank as well as your name when chatting.
   Battleground scoreboards now display the time elapsed in a 
   battleground.
- Warsong Gulch
   Warsong Gulch has new item rewards at the appropriate faction vendor
   near the entrances to the zone. These are available starting at 
   Honored faction.
   Friendly flag carriers are now displayed on the overhead map in 
   Warsong Gulch.
   Both the Warsong Outrider Supply Officer and the Silverwing Sentinel
   Supply Officer of Warsong Gulch now offer distinct tabards for 
   purchase.  Those heroes who are of Exalted status with one of these 
   factions may purchase the tabard for 5 gold (discounts not included). 
   Players now receive a faction bonus for completing the repeatable 
   Warsong Gulch quests. 
- Alterac Valley
   Each team will now gain additional bonus honor if their towers are 
   not destroyed by the end of the map.  The more towers that remained
   intact, the more honor received. 
   If you manage to keep your faction's Captain alive for the duration 
   of a battle, you will be granted extra points upon victory. 
   Several Alterac Valley vendor items are now bind on acquire.
   The respawn time for tower guards (assuming the tower has not been 
   destroyed) has been greatly increased.
   Korrak the Bloodrager has gained immunities to many different spell 
   and ability effects.
   The minimum reputation needed to send a cavalry charge has been 
   reduced to Honored. 
   Players of Revered or higher reputation may now call offensive air 
   strikes if they have managed to rescue their respective Wing 
   Commanders.
   Alterac Valley's guard spawn is now controlled via a more intuitive
   mechanism. Please check the Officer Supply vendors for your faction
   to read up on the changes.
   Fixed a bug that sometimes prevented the Alliance team from 
   receiving honor for destroying towers. 
   Fixed a bug that was not awarding Horde credit for owning a mine at
   the end of a game. 
- Dispel Magic can no longer be used on players participating in a duel 
  unless the caster is in the duel. 
- You are considered in combat for the entire duration of a duel.
- You can’t assist players which are engaged in free-for-all PvP unless
  you are also in free-for-all PvP.
- If you have PvP combat toggled on, it will no longer be cleared when 
  taking a flight.
- Hunter traps work properly in duels if the target is flagged for PvP
  and the hunter is not.
- Removing an insignia in PvP no longer marks both players as being in
  combat.

Druids
- Shapeshifting will now counteract the slowing effects of frost-based
  spells (Frostbolt, Frost Shock, Cone of Cold, etc.).
- Feral Charge - Targets that are immune to immobilizing effects will 
  no longer be affected by Feral Charge's immobilizing effect.  The 
  interrupt will still affect the target.
- Shadowmeld (Night Elf Racial) - Now reports the correct error message 
  when attempted in shapeshift form.
- Druid shapeshift form buttons are no longer dimmed while under the 
  effects of Polymorph.


Hunters
- Counterattack - Will now cause damage to targets immune to 
  immobilizing effects.
- Wing Clip - Will now cause damage to targets immune to immobilizing
  effects. 
- Explosive Trap - Fixed a bug where the trap's effects suffered 
  inappropriate damage reduction against high level targets.  In 
  addition, damage caused by this trap should no longer kill opponents 
  in duels. 
- Aspect of the Cheetah/Pack - Non-damaging spells and abilities will 
  no longer cause the dazed effect.  In addition, when switching 
  between Pack and Cheetah, you should no longer receive the "A more 
  powerful spell is already active" error message.
- Beast Lore - Will no longer flag you for PvP or cause guard 
  retaliation when used on an enemy faction target.

Mages 
- Frostbolt - Targets that are immune to movement slowing effects will
  no longer be affected by Frostbolt's movement slowing effect.  Damage
  will still be caused. 
- Frost Nova - Will now cause damage to targets immune to immobilizing 
  effects.
- Blast Wave - Will now cause damage to targets immune to immobilizing 
  effects. 
- Cone of Cold - Targets that are immune to movement slowing effects 
  will no longer be affected by Cone of Cold's movement slowing effect.
  Damage will still be caused. 
- Detect Magic - will no longer cause guard retaliation in Goblin towns.
- Ignite - Can now be dispelled by any effect that dispels magic 
  effects.  
- Frost Armor/Ice Armor - Targets that are immune to movement slowing 
  effects will no longer be affected by the Chill's movement slowing 
  effect.  Targets will still have their melee attack speed reduced. 
- Arcane Instability - Fixed a bug where rank 3 of this talent was not
  increasing the periodic damage of various spells by the correct 
  amount (was increasing by 2% and should now properly increase by 3%).

Paladins
- Blessing of Freedom - Will now counter the movement impairing effects
  of Frostbolt, Cone of Cold, Frost Shock.  It will no longer prevent 
  the damage taken by Frost Nova, Hamstring, Wing Clip, Mind Flay,
  Counterattack, or Blast Wave or the melee and ranged attack speed 
  slowing effects of Cripple.
- Consecration - No longer resets weapon timer when cast.
- Improved Seal of Justice - Tooltip updated to be more clear.
- Seal of Command - Should now correctly report damage in the overhead 
  display and the combat log.
- Summon Charger - New icon.
- Fixed a bug where the Paladin did not always die when using the 
  Divine Intervention spell.

Priests
- Mind Flay - Will now cause damage to targets immune to movement 
  slowing effects. 
- Shadowform - Changed so all spells except Holy can be cast rather 
  than only Shadow and Discipline spells.  Tooltip updated.  This fixes
  several bugs that prevented various actions (creating tradeskill 
  items, mining, summoning a mount, using a hearthstone and many more).
- Spirit of Redemption - Tooltip updated to be more clear.
- Touch of Weakness - Stronger versions of this effect on enemy targets 
  will no longer be replaced by weaker versions.

Rogues
- Riposte - Targets immune to disarm effects will now take damage from 
  Riposte.
- Disarming an enemy faction hunter's trap will now flag the rogue for 
  PvP.
- Ghostly Strike - no longer deals damage to you when you use it.
- Premeditation - Fixed a bug where the combo points gained using the 
  ability were not properly removed after the duration expired.  Also 
  increased range and duration.
- The UI now properly shows that Preparation does not clear a Cold 
  Blood setup.

Shaman
- Frost Shock - Targets that are immune to movement slowing effects 
  will no longer be affected by Frost Shock's movement slowing effect.
  Damage will still be caused. 
- Reincarnation will no longer be an option on death when a Soulstone
  effect is active on the Shaman. The Soulstone will be used as the 
  higher priority effect.
- Frostbrand Weapon - Targets that are immune to movement slowing 
  effects will no longer be affected by Frostbrand Weapon's movement
  slowing effect.  Damage will still be caused. 
- Call of Flame - Fixed a bug where the damage bonus did not always 
  increase various totems.
- Chain spells cast on PvP targets by an unflagged Shaman will now 
  properly bounce to other PvP targets.
- The tooltip for Fire Nova Totem now correctly reflects the damage the
  totems deal.

Warlocks
- Due to significant talent changes, Warlocks will have all talent 
  points refunded and can be respent. 
- Cripple (Doomguard) - Targets that are immune to movement slowing 
  effects will no longer be affected by Cripple's movement slowing 
  effect.  Melee and ranged attack speed slowing effects will still 
  affect these targets. 
- Demon Skin/Demon Armor - Now increases health regeneration at all 
  times, as was always intended.  Previously, the health regeneration 
  only occurred out of combat.  Tooltips updated.
- Demonic Sacrifice - The sacrifice effects for the Voidwalker and 
  Felhunter have changed.  The Voidwalker will now regenerate 3% of 
  your total health every 4 seconds.  The Felhunter will now regenerate
  2% of your total mana every 4 seconds. 
- Demonic Sacrifice now works properly on banished summons.
- Summon Dreadsteed - New icon. 
- Dark Pact - Fixed a bug where the combat log was reporting an 
  incorrect value of mana gained by the caster when there wasn't enough
  mana to drain from the pet. 
- Phase Shift (Imp) - While phase shifted, the imp is now targetable 
  but will remain an invalid target for all spells and attacks except 
  self-cast spells. 
- Improved Healthstone - The increased effect from this talent should
  now properly apply to other players that use the Warlock's 
  Healthstones.
- Ritual of Summoning - Fixed a bug where players could be summoned 
  from outside the same instance as the warlock in some cases. 
- Unholy Power - No longer requires the Fel Stamina talent.  Is now a 
  tier 4 talent and is a prerequisite for the new Master Demonologist 
  talent.
- Master Conjuror - Talent replaced with a new talent called Master 
  Demonlogist. 
- New Talent (Demonology): Master Demonologist - Grants both the 
  Warlock and the summoned demon an effect as long as that demon is 
  active.  The effect granted depends on the type of demon summoned. 
- Unholy Power - No longer requires the Fel Stamina talent.  It now 
  requires the Master Demonologist talent. 
- Ritual of Doom - Should now display the cooldown.

Warriors
- Due to significant talent changes, Warriors will have all talent 
  points refunded and can be respent. 
- Hamstring - Will now cause damage to targets immune to movement 
  slowing effects.  Movement slowing effect improved. 
- Improved Hamstring - Design changed.  No longer improves the movement
  slowing effect.  It is now a 3 point talent that gives a 5/10/15% 
  chance to immobilize the target for 5 seconds. 
- Booming Voice - In addition to increasing duration, this talent will
  now increase the area of effect of Battle Shout and Demoralizing 
  Shout by 10/20/30/40/50%. 
- Battle Shout - Tooltip updated to display area of effect (in yards). 
- Demoralizing Shout - Tooltip updated to display area of effect (in
  yards). 
- Improved Berserker Rage - No longer increases the duration of the 
  effect.  The talent will now generate 5/10 rage when Berserker Rage
  is used.
- Improved Demoralizing Shout - Effectiveness increase from talent 
  increased to 8/16/24/32/40%. 
- Piercing Howl - No longer has a prerequisite (Improved Demoralizing 
  Shout). 
- Deathwish - Is now usable while under a Fear effect, which will also
  remove the Fear effect. 
- Bloodthirst - Design changed.  Bloodthirst is now an instant melee 
  attack that causes damage equal to 30% of the warrior's attack power.
  In addition, the next 5 successful melee attacks will restore health.
- Concussion Blow - No longer requires purchase of the Improved Revenge
  talent.
- Shield Discipline - Removed and replaced by the new talent Shield 
 Slam.
- New Talent: Shield Slam - Slam the target with your shield, causing 
  damage and has a 50% chance to dispel 1 magic effect on the target.  
  Also causes a moderate amount of threat.  Requires the purchase of 
  the Concussion Blow talent. 
- Heroic Strike/Sunder Armor/Revenge/Mocking Blow - Tooltips updated 
  to indicate the additional threat caused by these abilities.  There
  have been no changes to the amount of threat caused.

Items
- Sets
   Felheart, Cenarion, Giantstalker's and Earthfury item sets now have
   updated art. The Felheart Skullcap is now also called something more 
   appropriate to the new art.
   Grand Marshal and High Warlord PvP Honor rewards have been updated 
   with improved statistics and new unique art.
   The Alliance Mail and Horde Leather and Mail Epic PvP Honor reward 
   armor sets have received art updates. 
   The stealth detection bonus on the Druid PvP set gloves has been 
   changed to work in all forms, including caster form. 
   The set bonus for The Champion's Earthshaker has a revised tooltip 
   to more clearly state that all Shock spells have an increased spell 
   critical chance.
   The 8 piece set bonus for Dreadmist will now appropriately affect 
   shadow spells.
   The tooltip for the improved feint effectiveness set bonus of the 
   Bloodfang armor set has been corrected to show the actual percentage
   increase.
   When worn by female characters, the Beaststalker's Tunic had a 
   missing texture piece last patch. This has been corrected.
   Set items which are broken no longer contribute to set bonus 
   listings in the item tooltips.
- The Horde and Alliance PvP Battle Standards may now only be used 
  inside PvP Battlegrounds, but the cooldown has been reduced to 10 
  minutes.
- The Rank 3 Stormpike Insignia now has the correct health regeneration
  effect.
- You can now only have one Flask affecting you at a time. 
- The Seal of the Dawn trinket now counts as though you were also 
  wearing an Argent Dawn Commission trinket.
- The Goblin Sapper Charge can now be used while moving.
- Dark Iron Bomb tooltip text and stun effect radius has been corrected
  to be the appropriate 5 yards. 
- Librams are now considered to be Books when searching for these items
  in the Auction House. 
- The Discombobulator Ray's effect has been changed: it now reduces 
  movement speed to 80% of normal and reduces the target's damage with
  both spells and melee by 40.  The range is now 20 yards.
- Snowblind Shoes are now properly marked as an Epic item. 
- Band of Sulfuras is now unique. 
- Fireguard Shoulders now have a graphic.
- Flask of Forest Mojo can now be sold.
- The Bloodseeker crossbow's firing animation has been corrected. 
- The damage from Smokey's Lighter will now show up appropriately in 
  the combat log.
- The water breathing ability of the Hydrocane will now continue to 
  work if the player is shapeshifted.
- Both helpful and harmful effects from the Deviate Fish will remain
  after logging out.
- Dark Iron Bracers have been changed to Bind on Equip.
- Set bonus for Stormshroud armor improved.   It should be more 
  compelling for rogues and druids now.
- Winter’s Might recipe now displays the correct +7 to spell damage 
  instead of +5.
- Fixed a typo in the item tooltip for the Alliance's Rune of Recall. 
- Several lootable items in Alterac Valley have had their stack limit
  changed.

Professions
- Thorium Brotherhood now offers several new recipes. Additionally, 
  several of the old recipes now have different faction requirements.
- Additional Smithing/Leatherworking/Tailoring/Enchanting Recipes added 
  to Timbermaw at Honored Reputation.
- Additional Smithing/Leatherworking/Tailoring/Enchanting Recipes added 
  to Argent Dawn at Honored and Revered Reputation.  Also new First Aid 
  recipe added to Argent Dawn at Honored.
- Lokhtos Darkbargainer in Blackrock Depths now has many additional 
  recipes that can be learned at Honored, Revered and Exalted            
  reputation. Recipes are available for Enchanting, Tailoring, 
  Leatherworking (all three specialty types), Blacksmithing 
  (Armorsmithing, and Weaponsmithing (all three specialty types).


Quests
- There is now an access quest to gain entry to Blackwing Lair. Happy 
  Hunting!
- Shadow Priest Vandis at the Bulwark should now properly buff players
  who complete any step of the "Return to the Bulwark" quest in Western
  Plaguelands. 
- Fixed a typo in the Horde version of the quest "Reclaimed Treasures". 
- Imps during the Warlock Mount Ritual in Dire Maul will no longer get 
  stuck at their spawn-in portals. 
- Using the Collectronic Module on frozen rookery eggs for the quest 
  "Egg Collection" will correctly consume them.
- Obtaining a set of Thieves’ Tools in the quest "Tools of the Trade"
  no longer flags you for PvP.

Raids and Dungeons 
- Several spawns removed from Scholomance.  This should make for a more
  enjoyable 5 player experience.
- Several spawns removed from Stratholme.  This should make for a more 
  enjoyable 5 player experience.  Also, you will now be able to make 
  additional attempts at Ramstein and/or Baron Rivendare should your 
  initial attempt fail.
- The trapped chests in Stratholme will now show up for Detect Traps
  and can be disarmed. In addition, the number of creatures that come
  out of the trapped chests has been reduced.
- Many creatures in Stratholme have gained Detect Invisibility/Stealth.
- The loot tables in Molten Core have been revised slightly.
- Characters that die and release in the Molten Core will now receive a
  minimap corpse marker and arrow that will lead them to the window 
  next to Lothos Riftwaker in Blackrock Mountain.
- Phase shifted imps are no longer hit by Magmadar’s Lava Bomb.
- Damage and resist messages from Magmadar’s Lava Bomb shows up in the
  combat log. 
- Fixed a bug that was causing the Cache of the Firelord (Majordomo 
  Loot chest), the Chest of the Seven (Blackrock Depths seven dwarves
  chest) and the Gordok Tribute Chest (Dire Maul) from despawning too 
  soon.
- The chance for an Epic quest item dropping from the Majordomo's chest 
  has been increased to 100%. 
- The Corrupted Forces of Nature in Maraudon will now pursue correctly.
- Dire Maul has had several spawn locations changed and a slight 
  increase in population.
- Crystal Fang, the rare spawn in Blackrock Spire, will now potentially
  appear.

User Interface
- Raid UI has been significantly improved. You can now open the raid UI 
  and drag the name of a class to your gamefield to have a listing of 
  all players of that class be displayed on the game field. Likewise 
  you can drag a group name to your playfield to have the players in 
  that group displayed on your gamefield. In either case the display 
  will show the health, mana and limited buffs or debuffs on each 
  player in the group or class and you can click on a player listed 
  this way to target that player.   You can then right-click on the 
  class or group UI element to make some modifications to how the UI 
  displays or to remove the UI element.
- If you cycle through targets with the Tab key, manually select a 
  different target using another method, then quickly hit Tab again,
  your last Tab-selected target will be re-selected and you can 
  continue Tab-selecting where you left off.  Clearing your target will
  restart the Tab selection process.
- Items on the action bar now remain there even after they are consumed.
- If you shift-click on an item link while you are entering chat text, 
  the item link will now be pasted into your text.
- Mail recipient auto-completion will now use names from your guild as
  well as your friends list.
- Hitting Escape will now cancel ranged weapon auto-shots.
- The pet UI will now be greyed out while you are mounted to reflect 
  the fact that you can't command your pet.
- NPCs which give dishonorable kills have the rank of Civilian and show
  up with a white title background in the targeting frame.
- The effect of damage resistance and vulnerability is now displayed in
  the combat log.
- Combat abilities which are fully blocked show up correctly in the 
  combat log.
- Crushing and glancing blows show more information in the combat log.
- Damage from poisons and curses now shows up in the UI after the 
  caster has been killed.
- Players now receive an error message if they try to join a meeting 
  stone queue and are in a raid or are not the party leader.
- TargetUnitsPet() is obsolete and has been removed from the scripting 
  system.
- Added UnitInRaid(), TargetLastTarget() and TargetNearestRaidMember() 
  to the scripting system.
- The GetPlayerMapPosition() script function will only work for you, 
  your party and raid.
- Fixed an issue where chat window positions may not be restored to the
  correct positions when re-entering the world.
- Fixed occasional crash when speech bubbles are enabled around NPCs 
  that talk a lot.
- Fixed occasional crash when listing a chat channel with a large 
  numbers of players.
- Fixed temporary lockup experienced by spell casting players when they
  are kicked.


World Environment
- Flight Paths
   Added a Wind Rider Master to Camp Taurajo in The Barrens. 
   New Horde Flight Paths -- 
    Camp Taurajo in The Barrens <-> Crossroads in The Barrens 
    Camp Taurajo in The Barrens <-> Thunder Bluff in Mulgore 
    Camp Taurajo in The Barrens <-> Freewind Post in Thousand Needles 
   Fixed several problems with the flight path from Undercity to 
   Hammerfall while passing through the Ruins of Andorhal. 
   Fixed some problems with the Ironforge to Stormwind flight path. 
   The Darkshire <-> Booty Bay flight paths no longer fly over the 
   Gurubashi Arena in Stranglethorn Vale, and therefore no longer 
   flag fliers as being in Free-for-All PvP. Also, they should no 
   longer fly through the zeppelins coming in and out of the Grom'Gol 
   Base Camp.
- Graveyards
   Feralas, Durotar, Mulgore, Darnassus, Tirisfal Glades (excluding
   the Bulwark graveyard), Elwynn Forest & the Eastern Plaguelands
   have now all been converted over to the new graveyard system.
   The system will place your character's spirit at the closest
   allowed graveyard in the zone. For example, an Alliance character
   dying closer to the new Darnassus graveyard, detailed below,
   will use that graveyard rather than the one located at Dolanaar. 
   Starting area graveyards are still reserved exclusively for 
   characters of similar faction that die within their confines.
   For example, the spirit of a Horde character dying right outside
   of Deathknell will not use Deathknell graveyard, but will instead
   go to the next closest Tirisfal Glades graveyard. 
   A Horde-only graveyard has been added in the northern section of 
   Durotar, just to the south of Orgrimmar.  In addition to serving 
   northern Durotar, Horde characters dying in Orgrimmar, The Hall
   of Legends and Ragefire Chasm will use this new graveyard.
   Alliance characters dying in Durotar will continue to only
   use the Razor Hill graveyard. 
   A Horde-only graveyard has been placed at the northern base of
   Thunder Bluff in Mulgore. Horde characters dying in Thunder Bluff
   will also use this new graveyard.  Alliance characters dying in
   Mulgore will continue to only use the graveyard at Bloodhoof
   Village. 
   An Alliance-only graveyard has been added at the eastern end of
   Darnassus.  Alliance characters dying in Darnassus will use this
   new graveyard.  Horde characters dying on Teldrassil will still
   only be able to use the graveyard at Dolanaar. 
   An Alliance-only graveyard has been added just outside of Ironforge,
   around the side of the mountain.  It is only for use by Alliance 
   characters that die inside Ironforge and in the Gates of Ironforge
   sub-area of Dun Morogh.  Horde characters dying therein will 
   continue to only use the Kharanos graveyard. 
   The Ruins of Lordaeron above Undercity now has a Horde-only 
   graveyard.  Horde characters dying inside the Undercity will use
   this new graveyard. Alliance characters will continue to solely use 
   the Faol's Rest graveyard. 
   A neutral graveyard has been added at the Eastvale Logging Camp
   in Elwynn Forest.  The graveyard at Goldshire is now for use by 
   the Alliance exclusively. Horde characters dying in Elwynn Forest
   and its sub-areas, as well as in Stormwind, The Stockade and the
   Deeprun Tram, will have their spirits travel to the new graveyard
   at the Eastvale Logging Camp.
   A neutral graveyard has been added on the island of Caer Darrow
   in Western Plaguelands.  It will serve characters who die on
   Caer Darrow and in Scholomance. 
   A neutral graveyard has been added in the Eastern Plaguelands 
   near the northwestern shore of Blackwood Lake.  Characters that 
   die in The Fungal Vale will continue to use the Darrowshire 
   graveyard due to the mountains between it and the new graveyard.
   Additionally, characters dying in Stratholme will now use the
   new Blackwood Lake graveyard. 
   A neutral graveyard has been added in Feralas, just to the 
   southwest of Dire Maul. Characters dying in Dire Maul will use
   this new graveyard.
- Darkmoon Cards have been seen dropping from high level Humanoids
  around the world. Collect a set of them and bring them to the 
  Darkmoon Faire when it is in town!
- Several NPCs that were not marked as Civilians are now correctly 
  labeled.
- The "Human, Theramore" faction is now the "Theramore" faction.  This
  faction is allied with the Alliance and is at war with the Horde. 
- High Elves now have their own distinct faction – "Silvermoon Remnant".
  This faction is allied with the Alliance and is at war with the Horde.
  Not all High Elves are a part of this faction. 
- Several NPCs around the world are now associated with the proper 
  faction.
- Dimetradons in Un'Goro Crater should be found more regularly now.
- Fire Elementals in Searing Gorge should be easier to find.
- The pair of gryphons guarding the entrance to the Hinterlands have 
  finally decided to stop staring at one another and will now wander 
  around the entrance to the pass.
- Rashona Straglash was moved to be with other cloth-centric citizens
  in Orgrimmar.
- Dark Strand Cultist and Enforcers are now correctly labeled Humanoid.
- Morbent Fel’s level was slightly reduced to better fit the level 
  range of Duskwood. 
- Brinna Valanaar in Azshara now sells higher level arrows.
- Hadoken Swiftstrider of Camp Mojache, Feralas and Dinita Stonemantle
  in Ironforge received promotions; they are now significantly tougher 
  than before.
- Certain floating herbs, minerals, and chests should now be more down 
  to earth.
- The Barrens should now feel more alive.
- Sickly Gazelles now have a sickly look to them. 
- Jarven Thunderbrew in Kharanos warns players in Common now, and not
  in Dwarvish.
- The Wastewander Scufflaw of Tanaris now spells his own name 
  correctly. 
- Swift Green Raptor has been renamed to Swift Olive Raptor for clarity.
- An icon has been added at the Kalimdor continent map level for 
  Revantusk Village. 
- Revantusk Village will now have an arrow pointing in its direction 
  on the mini-map when you get close enough to it.
- Fixed some typos in Gilnid's text in The Deadmines.
- Fixed some typos in Supervisor Raelen's text in Elwynn Forest.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.5.1 (2005-06-10)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bug Fixes
- Fixed an assertion that was preventing Mac clients from playing in
  the battlegrounds and causing a memory leak on PCs when they did.
- Improved error reporting to give more useful information to 
  development.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.5.0 (2005-06-07)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Battlegrounds arrive!
  The Warsong Gulch and Alterac Valley battlegrounds are now available.  
  The Warsong Gulch entrances may be found in the northern Barrens near 
  the Mor'Shan Rampart (Horde) and south of Silverwing Outpost in 
  Ashenvale (Alliance).  The Alterac Valley entrances may be found east 
  of Sofera's Naze in Alterac (Horde), and in the Headlands of Alterac 
  (Alliance).

General
- Wands - The Shoot Wand ability is now a toggle. While active, it will 
  continue attacking with the equipped wand until some other action is 
  taken (movement, spellcasting, item use, etc...).
- Pet speed has been increased when out of combat and following their 
  master.
- Berserking (Troll Racial) - Updated tooltip to clarify ability only 
  usable following a melee critical.
- Hardiness (Orc Racial) - Fixed a bug that caused many abilities to 
  ignore the additional resistance.
- It should no longer be possible to disarm traps created by friendly 
  players.

PvP
- Honor system
   Dishonorable kills - gained by killing a trivial Civilian NPC - now 
   has a negative impact on a player's honor. Enough dishonorable kills 
   will reduce a player's rank all the way to zero.
   Players may now see an "estimated contribution point value" in the 
   combat log for an honorable kill.  Note that this value does not 
   take diminishing returns against the same player into account, and 
   is therefore "estimated".
   "Team Contribution Points" has been renamed to "Honor"
   Added tooltips to the different elements of the Honor System UI.
   Players will see their last week's kill data in the "Last Week" 
   section of the Honor System UI even if they did not achieve the 25 
   honorable kills required to gain standing or rank.
   Fixed a bug where the PvP trinket rewards were not always removing 
   the effects they were designed to remove (e.g. Polymorph, Fear, 
   Stun).
- Sitting characters will now stand up immediately after an attack, 
  even if stunned.
- Players can no longer swap inventory gear while dueling.
- Dueling is now allowed within Everlook.

Hunters
- The Hunter Epic quest has had some of its Demonic Corrupters retuned. 
  It should also be noted that Hunters that attempt to bypass the 
  single player portion of the encounter by using another class to do 
  their tasks will fail the quest in a most glorious fashion.
- Tranquilizing Shot - Is now properly affected by Efficiency and Hawk 
  Eye talents.
- Unleashed Fury - Fixed a bug where the damage increase was lower than 
  stated in the tooltip.  It should now increase damage by the listed 
  amount.
- Growl - Rank 1 effect improved.
- Volley - Damage increased.
- Pet speed has been increased when out of combat and following their 
  master.
- Spirit Guides in Battlegrounds will now summon/resurrect your current 
  pet when the Hunter is resurrected.
- Unstabling dead pets no longer puts players into a degenerate state 
  where their pet only partially exists. Unstabled dead pets can now be 
  properly revived, and players can no longer train more pets than 
  their stable can hold.
- Fixed a bug where magic shots were missing too frequently when used 
  on a target with Blessing of Protection active.

Mages
- Mage Armor - Now has a new, unique icon.

Paladins
- Fixed a bug where a Hunter's magic shots were missing too frequently 
  when used on a target with Blessing of Protection active.

Priests
- Inner Fire - Now stacks with other effects that increase attack power 
  and armor.
- Holy Nova - Cooldown decreased.
- Feedback - Casting a higher rank of the spell will now replace an 
  existing, lower level effect.
- Unbreakable Will - Fixed a bug that caused many abilities to ignore 
  the additional resistance.

Rogues
- Riposte - Fixed a bug where the ability was not usable against a 
  disarmed or unarmed target.
- Vanish - Should be a lot more responsive when used to avoid incoming 
  attacks.

Shaman 
- Fixed a bug where Fire Nova, Flametongue, Stoneclaw and Windfury 
  Totems had incorrect level caps when cast by higher level shaman.  
  All totems should now be summoned at the level of the caster.
- Flametongue Totem - Tooltip updated to clarify that only the 
  main-hand weapon is enchanted.
- Windfury Totem - Tooltip updated to clarify that only the main-hand 
  weapon is enchanted.
- Fire Resistance Totem - New icon.
- Frost Resistance Totem - New icon.
- Grounding Totem - Fixed a bug that allowed some area of effect spells 
  to be "grounded" and/or destroy the totem.

Warlocks
- Improved Drain Mana - Damage caused is now considered Shadow damage 
  and is no longer reduced by armor.
- Improved Voidwalker - Now increases all Voidwalker spells (now also 
  including Sacrifice) by 10/20/30%.
- Improved Succubus - Now increases Succubus spells by 10/20/30%.
- Master Summoner - In addition to decreasing casting time of summoning 
  the Imp, Voidwalker, Succubus and Felhunter, it now reduces mana cost 
  by 20/40%.
- Improved Enslave Demon - In addition to reducing the attack speed and 
  casting speed penalty of enslaved demons, it now reduces the resist 
  chance of Enslave Demon by 2/4/6/8/10%.
- Demonic Sacrifice - Is now instant cast.
- Improved Firestone - Now also improves the bonus Fire spell damage of 
  Firestones by 15/30%.
- Inferno - The summoned Infernal will now be enslaved for 5 minutes 
  before turning on its summoner.
- Drain Mana - Targets with no mana will no longer be valid for Drain 
  Mana (Rank 4), making it consistent with all other ranks of the spell.
- Improved Drain Mana - Damage caused by this talent is now improved by 
  the Shadow Mastery talent.
- Conflagrate - Range increased.
- Siphon Life - Is now instant cast, damage increased.
- Paranoia - No longer causes threat when cast.
- War Stomp (Doomguard) - Now has a maximum of 5 targets.
- Pet speed has been increased when out of combat and following their 
  master.
- Honorable kills will now generate a Soul Shard when Drain Soul and 
  Shadowburn are used.
- Spirit Guides in Battlegrounds will now resurrect your last Imp, 
  Voidwalker, Succubus or Felhunter.  If the Doomguard or Infernal were 
  the last active pet or the previous pet was killed before the Warlock, 
  an Imp will be summoned.
- Improved Curse of Agony - Fixed a bug where Curse of Agony (rank 1) 
  was not improved by the talent.  The talent will now work properly 
  with all ranks of Curse of Agony.

Warriors
- Overpower - Fixed a bug where the ability was sometimes blocked.
- Improved Cleave - Now increases damage bonus by 40/80/120%.
- Blood Craze - Talent design changed.  It now regenerates 1/2/3% of 
  the warrior's total health over 6 seconds after being the victim of a 
  critical strike.
- New Fury Talent: Dual Wield Specialization - Increases damage with 
  the off-hand weapon by 5/10/15/20/25%.  Note: the additional damage 
  also increases rage generation significantly.
- Iron Will - Fixed a bug that caused many abilities to ignore the 
  additional resistance.
- Enrage - Increased the number of charges to 12.  Decreased the 
  duration to 12 seconds.  The new duration is the limiting factor for 
  slower weapons (e.g. Arcanite Reaper will typically get one less 
  swing), while dual wielding and faster weapons will make better use 
  of all of the charges over the duration of the ability.
- Concussion Blow - Changed to an instant, stunning attack and removed 
  the damage portion.
- Shield Specialization - In addition to increasing % chance to block, 
  it now gives the warrior a 20/40/60/80/100% chance to generate 1 rage 
  on a successful block.

Items
- The following item sets have had their statistics, effects, and set 
  bonuses updated:
- Arcanist, Netherwind, Prophecy, Transcendence, Felheart, Nemesis, 
  Cenarion, Stormrage, Nightslayer, Bloodfang, Giantstalker, 
  Dragonstalker, Earthfury, Ten Storms, Might, Wrath, Lawbringer, and 
  Judgement.
- Mature Blue Dragon Sinew and The Eye of Shadow can both now drop off 
  appropriate level demonic and blue dragonkin monsters. It should be 
  noted that both Lord Kazzak and Azuregos will guarantee a drop of the 
  aforementioned items but to get the items from the lesser creatures 
  will be a much rarer occurrence.
- Essence of Eranikus now has a poison cloud graphic around it when 
  used.
- Murloc Scale Belt and Breastplate recipes now are white items instead 
  of green since they are vendor bought.
- Gryphon Mail Gauntlets now have a proper inventory icon.
- Ogre Toothpick Shooter now uses the proper attack animation.
- Distracting Dagger now sheathes properly.
- Mountain Giants in Feralas now drop loot more appropriate to their 
  elite status.
- The Druid of the Claw quest in Teldrassil will now provide a weapon 
  choice more appropriate for low level Night Elves.
- The Dreadmist set now has a bonus for wearing all 8 pieces of the set.
- Cutthroat's Loincloth name changed to Cutthroat's Pants.
- Ritual Kilt name changed to Ritual Leggings.
- Felstriker effect's name changed to Felstriker to reflect the 
  previously patched item name change.
- Ogre Pocket Knife, Peacemaker, and Lok'delar, Stave of the Ancient 
  Keepers now sheathe properly.
- Dragonbreath Chili's effect visual fixed.
- The Oblivion's Touch wand properly shoots now.
- Deepstrider Tumors are now a 100% drop off Deepstrider sea giants 
  in Desolace.
- New art has been added for Nightslayer, Lawbringer, and 
  Beaststalker's item sets.
- The Arcanist Crown has updated art.

Professions
- New Engineering firework recipe added.
- Added leatherworking recipe for mid level blue bracers.
- Dragonbreath Chili proc rate has been reduced.
- Restorative Elixir name changed to Resorative Potion with potion 
  cooldown timer.  Functionality has been changed so it should be more 
  effective as it now dispels one harmful effect every 5 seconds for 
  30 seconds.
- Two new transporter recipes have been added, with one for gnomish and 
  one for goblin engineers.  Gnomish engineers can get their recipe 
  from Gadgetzan, Goblin engineers from Everlook.
- Tribal Leatherworkers who have restarted their profession are now 
  able to relearn the various Wild Leather patterns if they've already 
  completed the quests prior to restarting the profession. Speak with 
  Pratt McGrubben (Alliance) or Jangdor Swiftstrider (Horde) in Feralas 
  to relearn what you once knew!
- Small Throrium Veins now sometimes will have Emeralds or Diamonds.
- Engineering Vendors now sell Blacksmith's Hammers.
- Both types of the engineer made Jumper Cables now share a cooldown. 
  It was never intended to allow a player to use jumper cables XL and 
  jumper cables within the same period of time.
- Solid Dynamite was inadvertently broken in the 1.4 patch to require 
  harder materials than it should.  This has been fixed.
- Wicked Leather Bracers Plan is no longer bind on acquire.
- Jumper Cables no longer have a chance to break when they fail.
- Elemental Flux added to blacksmith vendors.

Raids & Dungeons
- Molten Core
   Firesworns that are moved too far away from Garr will now become 
   quite enraged until they move closer to Garr.
   The eruptions from the lava in Ragnaros's Lair will now always 
   happen while Ragnaros is in combat. However, these lava eruptions 
   occur less frequently, do less damage, and the damage they inflict 
   is now resistable.
   The maximum range of the Wrath of Ragnaros spell has been increased.
- Additional new raid items have been added to the treasure lists for 
  Azuregos, Lord Kazzak, and bosses in Molten Core.
- Onyxia - Fixed a bug that was causing Onyxia's Tail sweep to no 
  longer cause knockback.

Quests
- Searing Gorge has a new quest hub for both Alliance and Horde players 
  called Thorium Point. The supported level ranges are 45-52. Craftsmen 
  will be happy to know that the Thorium Brotherhood has opened up many 
  new opportunities to gain favor amongst their clan (even for level 
  60 players).
- The Hinterlands has a new Horde quest hub known as Revantusk Village, 
  located on the eastern coastline. Horde players level 44-52 are 
  encouraged to visit Revantusk Village and assist the Revantusk with 
  their myriad problems and tasks!
- All members of both the Horde and Alliance are reporting low 
  stockpiles of various textile resources!  Donations of cloth are now 
  being accepted in the following locations: Darnassus, Stormwind, and 
  Ironforge for the Alliance; Orgrimmar, Undercity, and Thunder Bluff 
  for the Horde.  Seek out an official Cloth Quartermaster for more 
  information.
- Several quests have been added to Feralas for level 45-52 characters.
- Krueg Skullsplitter has moved from Thousand Needles to a more 
  appropriate location at Camp Mojache in Feralas.
- Highlord Demitrian is back! For those players unraveling the 
  mysteries of Thunderaan, you may once more speak with the Highlord.
- Dwarven Priests may now undertake the Molten Core discovery quest; 
  "Attunement to the Core." By fixing this bug, we had to open the 
  quest to all players once more. If you have already done the quest, 
  you will not be required to do it again in order to access the Molten 
  Core via the portal.
- Highlord Bolvar Fordragon should no longer despawn when "The Great 
  Masquerade" is activated.
- Characters on the "A Strange Historian" quest are now correctly 
  prompted to find Chromie in the northwest corner of Andorhal, where 
  she and the ruined inn have been moved to.
- The Gordok Courtyard Key and the Gordok Inner Door Key are now zone 
  bound items.  These items only exist within the Dire Maul zone 
  instance, and players will lose these keys from their inventory if 
  they leave the zone.
- Everyone's favorite Alliance quest, "Deep Ocean, Vast Sea" now gives 
  a substantial coin reward in addition to the choice of item.
- Rage Scar Yetis in Feralas no longer give the quest item for the 
  "Mark of Quality" quest.
- Completing the "Mark of Quality" quest now gives Darnassus and 
  Thunder Bluff faction increase where appropriate.
- Merideth Carlson should only hand out her free horse feed now to 
  people who have already completed the quest for it.
- The "Unfinished Gordok Business" quest has been fixed to allow 
  certain Human Priests access to it who had difficulty previously.
- Sea Elementals and Sea Sprays in Feralas should now be giving out 
  the proper version of Oglethorpe's distress beacon.
- The end of the Paladin Epic Mount quest "Grimand's Finest Work" now 
  makes it clearer that Lord Shadowbreaker's acquisition of the 
  Arcanite Barding is only temporary.
- Jeziba in the Ruins of Andorhal now faces the correct direction when 
  pointing to his Catalogue of the Wayward.
- Fraggar Thundermantle now correctly tells you to return to him, and 
  not his evil, two-eyed twin, Frobe Thundermantle when completing the 
  Skull Rock Clean-up quest.
- The Branch of Cenarius no longer drops off of Prince Raze. It now 
  properly only drops off of Geltharis for the quest, The Branch of 
  Cenarius.
- Failed quests will now indicate (Failed) in the quest log so it is 
  easier to see them.
- Typos fixed in the Paladin Epic Mount quests.

User Interface
- Innkeepers around the world now have a gossip option that lets you 
  join a meeting stone directly from the innkeeper rather than going to 
  the location of the meeting stone. Also these Innkeepers will now 
  have background lore about each of the dungeons.
- Levels Required for meeting stones have been increased. The intent is 
  that a group will not receive party members from a meeting stone that 
  don't really have a chance of completing the dungeon.
- Meeting Stones have had their rules for what players are grouped with 
  what other players relaxed. This means groups who use meeting stones 
  (or innkeepers) should have their groups formed much more quickly 
  than they were previously.
- Pets of other party members will now display in the party UI. You can 
  see pet health and harmful effects on the pet. You can turn this
  functionality on and off in the Interface Options menu.
- Players can now target other players in a raid by clicking on their 
  name in the raid window. Additional Raid UI improvements coming soon.
- Added visual effects for healing power and spell power enchantments.
- Your main action bar now displays the number of the bar that you are 
  currently displaying.
- In Master Looter mode, items are no longer opened up for looting by 
  all party members after the round-robin looter closes their loot 
  window. The Loot Master always distributes items over the loot 
  threshold.
- Rolling on items while charmed/hexed/etc. now works, as does /random 
  and receiving items from the master looter.
- When a player dies in an instance and then uses the spirit healer, 
  the body in the instance now turns to bones.
- Players can no longer mail or auction an item that they've just 
  disenchanted.
- When a ghost player is resurrected into an instance that has become 
  full, they no longer come to life wherever their ghost happens to be 
  standing. Instead, they get ported to the closest graveyard.
- Players must now bind a bind-on-equip bag to put in into a purchased 
  bank bag slot.
- Items split from stacks can now be dropped directly into (or onto) 
  bank bags without any mysterious error messages.
- Added a "Maximize" windowed video option which will maximize the game 
  window and remove the borders for a fullscreen experience which 
  allows popup windows.
- Trying to use a hearthstone, consumable, etc. while logging out now
  displays a more appropriate message: "Another action is in progress."
- The login interface files are now checked to make sure they haven't 
  been tampered with or corrupted. This is to improve account security 
  in public game rooms.
- Added the function TargetNearestPartyMember() to the UI scripting 
  system.

World Environment
- The Thorium Brotherhood faction is now peaceful - players cannot go 
  to war with them.
- The Wildhammer Clan in the Hinterlands is now a peaceful faction to 
  the Alliance, meaning Alliance players cannot intentionally declare 
  war on them.
- A new graveyard has been added near the east coast of the Hinterlands 
  at the Overlook Cliffs.
- The two Hinterlands graveyards are now using a system that will 
  ensure that the spirits of dead characters go to the closest 
  graveyard.
- Buliwyf Stonehand, the dwarven weapon master in Ironforge, now 
  properly tells you about the weapons that Woo Ping can train you in, 
  instead of talking about himself. He does like going on about his 
  own martial prowess.
- Krinkle Goodsteel of Gadgetzan submitted a complaint to the local 
  Repairer's Union and has had his ability to repair durability 
  reinstated.
- Brave Wildrunner of Bloodhoof Village in Mulgore no longer patrols 
  through the kodo mounts.
- Added new load screens for Deadmines, Wailing Caverns, Uldaman, 
  Razorfen Downs, and Zul Farrak.
- Discovering Valor's Rest now also pops the Southwind Village puzzle 
  piece on the Silithus area map.
- Many of the Swift Mounts have gained eye glows and some have had 
  other tweaks made to them to improve their looks.
- Additional mithril nodes have been added in Un'Goro crater
- Genavie Callow in Undercity is now properly on the Undercity faction.
- The Grow effect that Bom'bay in Sen'jin Village would sometimes cast 
  on characters was reduced from 100% to 50% growth.
- The Lazy Peons in The Valley of Trials now make a wood chopping sound 
  when they are hacking at the trees.
- The Dark Summoners of the Eastern Plaguelands have finally fully 
  materialized and are no longer ghostly in appearance.
- In Silverpine Forest on Fenris Island, moved a Rot Hide Plague 
  Weaver's spawn point from inside a tree.
- Neeka Bloodscar of Kargath no longer speaks as if she is in the 
  Barrens.

Flight Paths
- New Horde Flight Paths
   Valormok in Azshara - Bloodvenom Post in Felwood
   Kargath in Badlands - Thorium Point in Searing Gorge
   Flame Crest in Burning Steppes - Thorium Point in Searing Gorge
   Tarren Mill in Hillsbrad - Revantusk Village in Hinterlands
   Undercity - Revantusk Village in Hinterlands
- New Alliance Flight Paths
   Ironforge - Thorium Point in Searing Gorge
   Morgan's Vigil in the Burning Steppes - Thorium Point in Searing 
   Gorge
- The flight path from Undercity to Kargath no longer clips into the 
  ground just south of Dalaran.

Bug Fixes
- Fixed bug causing all tailoring recipes to show up as "orange"


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.4.2 (2005-05-03)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Fixed an infrequent crash bug which occurred during certain 
  database queries.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.4.1 (2005-05-03)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Added minimum level requirements to all instances to prevent 
  exploitive behavior. The minimum levels are very generous and should
  not affect the normal course of gameplay.
- Fixed a number of disconnect problems.
- Fixed a bug where periods would appear as commas.
- Fixed a font issue that could cause distortion of game text.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.4.0 (2005-04-19)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PvP Honor System 
  The Player versus Player Honor System is now active. Players will be 
  able to gain rankings based on their PvP performance, with lucrative 
  rewards for those who distinguish themselves on the field of battle! 
  Read more about the PvP Honor system. 
  
Children's Week 
  Children's Week is celebrated in Orgrimmar and Stormwind City at the 
  start of May and lasts for a week. It is a time to give back to the 
  innocents of war: the orphans! 
  
Gurubashi Arena event 
  There is now a regular event in Gurubashi Arena in Stranglethorn 
  Vale. Every three hours starting at midnight, a pirate with too 
  much treasure on his hands will drop a chest in the center of the 
  arena. Whoever can open the chest first gets the contents! Of course, 
  the arena is a PvP Free for All area, so there might be other players 
  who are trying to open it first... 
 
Elemental invasions! 
  Invasions by elementals at different locations on Kalimdor have 
  reportedly been occurring sporadically every few days. Concerned 
  adventurers should investigate Silithus, Un'Goro Crater, Azshara, 
  and Winterspring to counter these incursions. 

General 
- Charm and Polymorph mechanics can now be reactively countered by 
  spells and abilities (e.g. Druid Shapeshifting will now cancel 
  Polymorph effects). 
- Mana regeneration is now disrupted when a spell has completed casting 
  rather than at the start of casting. It will resume normally five 
  seconds after the last spell cast. This change increases the total 
  time spent regenerating mana and therefore increases the total 
  contribution from Spirit for mana-based classes. 
- Level 60 mounts purchased at vendors now have a whole new look. 
  Faster undead mounts already have a different look and so have not 
  changed. The new mounts can be seen standing near the mount vendors. 
  If you have one of the old fast mounts, you can exchange it for one 
  with a new look at the mount vendor. 
- Healing-over-time spells should now be improved by "+Healing" items 
  when cast on other players. 
- Mind Controlled characters will no longer receive a durability 
  penalty when they die. 
- When a non-Hunter resurrects a pet, the pet will no longer receive 
  resurrection sickness. 

PvP 
- A handful of spells were added to the list of spells subject to 
  diminishing returns in PvP. It is our goal to set as few spells as 
  possible to be diminished. We've identified this short list of spells
  as having durations and cooldowns sufficient to almost permanently 
  slow or immobilize targets but without adequate controls or other 
  limiting factors. When a spell with diminishing returns is used 
  against a target in PvP, the first effect has full duration. On the 
  second use of the same category of spell (e.g. slowing), that spell's 
  duration is reduced by 50%. On the third use, the duration is reduced 
  by 75%. On the fourth attempt, the target becomes immune to the 
  spell. Spells must be used on the same target within 15 seconds of the 
  *end* of the duration in order to be diminished. In other words, if a 
  target hasn't had a slowing spell active on them for more than 15 
  seconds, the next slowing spell will have full effect. The list of 
  affected spells is: 
    Frost Shock 
    Entangling Roots 
    Frost Nova 
- Guard directions, signs and signposts have been added to point you 
  toward the PvP Officer Lounges in Stormwind City (Champions' Hall) 
  and Orgrimmar (Hall of Legends). 
 
Racial Traits 
- Blood Fury - Now increases base melee attack power by 25% for 15 
  seconds. When it fades base melee attack power is reduced by 25% for 
  45 seconds. 
- Perception - Increased detection bonus. 
- Berserking - Is now usable after being the target of a critical hit. 
  Increases melee, ranged and spell casting speed by 25% but increases 
  all damage taken by 10% for the duration. 
 
Druids 
- Ravage and Shred now properly increase the attack power contribution 
  by the percent modifier. 
- Shapeshifting into an animal form will now remove Polymorph effects. 
- Feral Charge - Fixed a bug where the ability cost 10 rage instead of 
  five as intended. Should now cost five rage. 
- Entangling Roots - Now subject to diminishing returns in PvP. This is 
  considered an immobilizing effect. 

Hunters 
- A new Hunter epic quest series is now in the game and waiting to be 
  found. 
- Scatter Shot (Talent) - Now usable while moving and no longer 
  interrupts ranged combat. Now properly reduces the ranged attack 
  power contribution by the percent modifier. 
- Highland Striders no longer have Cower (Rank 3) when tamed. 
- New Pet Ability: Dive - Increases movement speed for a short 
  duration. 
- New Pet Ability: Dash - Increases movement speed for a short duration. 
- Freezing Trap - Visual changed. 
- Track Hidden - Increased stealth detection. 
- Scorpid Sting - Fixed a bug where it was not considered a poison. It 
  can now be removed by poison curing effects. 
- Aspect of the Cheetah/Pack - These Aspects will now be canceled when 
  mounted. 
- Viper Sting - This spell can no longer be used on warrior and rogue 
  targets. In addition, while it can be used on a druid target at any 
  time it will only drain mana when the druid is in caster form. 

Mages 
- Amplify Magic and Dampen Magic effects should now replace each other 
  properly. 
- Improved Scorch (Talent) - Redesign. Scorch spells have a 
  20/40/60/80/100% chance to cause your target to be vulnerable to Fire 
  damage. This vulnerability increases the Fire damage dealt to your 
  target by 2% and can be stacked up to 5 times for a total of 10% 
  increased Fire damage. 
- New Spell: Arcane Brilliance (available at level 56 - Loot) - Infuses 
  the target's party with brilliance, increasing their Intellect. 
- Improved Mana Shield - Design changed. Instead of increasing the 
  amount absorbed, it now decreases the mana lost per point of damage 
  taken by 10/20%. 
- An error message is now displayed if you try to use Blink on boats 
  and zeppelins. 
- Wand Specialization - Fixed a bug where the damage increase with this 
  talent was higher than the listed amount. 
- Frost Nova - Now subject to diminishing returns in PvP. This is 
  considered an immobilizing effect. 
- Pyroblast and Fireball damage over time will now stack together. 

Paladins 
- Seal of Wisdom and Seal of Light should now replace each other 
  properly as well as stack properly when used by different paladins. 
- Paladin Epic Mount quest added. To begin, talk to the paladin 
  trainers Duthroian Rall or Brandur Ironhammer. 
- Paladins who have completed their Epic Mount quest can repeat the 
  final event in Scholomance for fun (and loot) by speaking with Lord 
  Grayson Shadowbreaker. 
- Sanctity Aura - Fixed a bug where the spell/talent was unlearned 
  after logging out if learned before level 40. 
- Resistance Auras - Paladins should now be able to switch from a 
  resistance aura to any other resistance aura without canceling the 
  current one first. 
- Improved Seal of Justice - Fixed a bug that caused the talent to 
  have no effect. It will now increase the frequency that the stun 
  effect will land. 

Priests 
- A new Priest epic quest series is now in the game and waiting to 
  be found. 
- Levitate - Duration and mana cost increased. 
- Touch of Weakness - Should now be affected by the Blackout, Darkness, 
  Force of Will, Shadow Focus, Shadow Weaving and Silent Resolve 
  talents. 
- Starshards - Should now be affected by the Focused Casting, Force of
  Will, and Silent Resolve talents. 
- Holy Fire - Should now be affected by the Focused Casting talent. 
- Mind Flay - Should now be affected by the Focused Casting talent. 
- Desperate Prayer - Should now be affected by the Holy Specialization 
  talents. 
- Vampiric Embrace - Active icon tooltip rewritten to be more clear. 
- Holy Nova - Now causes an explosion of holy light around the caster, 
  causing Holy damage to all enemy targets within 10 yards and healing 
  all party members within 10 yards. These effects now cause no threat 
  as opposed to reducing threat temporarily. 
- Holy Fire - Several changes were made to Holy Fire in an effort to 
  make this a more usable and efficient damage spell. The cast time was 
  reduced from five seconds to four seconds, which reduces the damage 
  caused. Therefore, the damage was increased and more of the spell's 
  potency was shifted into the damage-over-time portion. The duration 
  was also increased and mana cost and cooldown were both decreased. 
  While the direct damage portion was reduced slightly from the 
  previous version, each tick of damage should be unchanged, and the 
  spell now delivers one additional tick of damage. In total, the 
  relative damage and efficiency of the spell has been increased. 
- Wand Specialization - Fixed a bug where the damage increase with this 
  talent was too high. 

Rogues 
- Combo points will no longer be removed if the target is deselected. 
  They will only be removed if a different target is selected. 
- Fixed a bug where combo points were not always being applied to the 
  target when using Cheap Shot, Ambush and Garrote. 
- Vanish - Increased stealth bonus. 
- Ambush, Backstab, Ghostly Strike, and Riposte now properly increase 
  the attack power contribution by the percent modifier. 
- The Kick ability prevents the target from casting spells in the same 
  school when channeled casting is interrupted. 
- If using Gouge triggers the Stormshroud Armor lightning effect, the 
  Gouge effect will no longer be instantly interrupted. 
- The Rogue trainers will now point the player to an appropriate area 
  with boxes to unlock depending on the lockpicking skill of the player. 
- Preparation - Will now clear the cooldown of the Blade Flurry ability. 
- Riposte - Fixed a bug that prevented the ability from being used when 
  the target had no weapon or was already disarmed. 
 
Shaman 
- Earth Shock - The visual for ranks two through seven has been changed 
  to be consistent with rank one. 
- Windfury - Fixed a bug that caused an additional attack beyond what 
  was intended. In addition, fixed a bug that caused the next normal 
  melee attack to happen sooner than intended. 
- Level 58+ Shaman should talk to Sagorne Creststrider in Orgrimmar; 
  there is a special quest for them involving a dreaded death knight 
  who dwells in the depths of the Scholomance. 
- Frost Shock - Now subject to diminishing returns in PvP. This is 
  considered a slowing effect. 
- Grounding Totem - Should no longer redirect area effect spells or 
  be destroyed by area effects spells. 
 
Warlocks 
- Warlock Epic Mount quest added. To begin, speak with a demon trainer 
  in any of the capital cities: Kurgal, Martha Strain, Spackle 
  Thornberry, or Jubahl Corpseeker. 
- The Warlock Infernal quest is now available and can be found in 
  Felwood. 
- The Warlock Ritual of Doom quest is now available and can be found in
  the Tainted Scar. 
- The succubus model has been updated. 
- Paranoia (Felhunter) - Increased stealth detection. 
- Seduction (Succubus) - Is now considered a Fear effect for purposes 
  of diminishing returns. 

Warriors 
- Thunder Clap - Visual and animation changed. 

Items 
- The following set items have had their art updated: 
- Devout Crown and Mantle, Magister's Crown, Circlet of Prophecy, all 
  parts of the Warrior "Might" set, Lightforge Helm, Helm of Valor, 
  Dreadmist Mask, Wildheart Cowl and Pauldrons, and Coif of Elements. 
  Other class sets will receive updated art in future patches. 
- Random world items that had increased healing effects were 
  mislabeled, and the amount of increased healing appeared to be half 
  of what was actually occurring. The amount shown on the item is now 
  an accurate representation of the healing increase. 
- The Celestial Orb and Robe of the Archmage will no longer trigger 
  the cooldowns of a Mage's mana gems. Mana gems are now on their own 
  unique cooldown category. 
- Tiny Black Whelping item changed to Dark Whelpling to reflect the 
  name of the creature summoned. 
- Fixed a typo in the aura description for the Mighty Rage potion. 
- +Spell damage and +Healing effects have been increased in 
  effectiveness to make them more attractive to players. Effects that 
  increased damage and healing done by all magical spells received the 
  largest increase, especially if the previous amount was small. We 
  also fixed a couple bugs relating to these effects. 
- Pimgib's Collar is now unique. 
- Frayed Abomination Stichings are now considered to be uncommon items. 
- Fordring's Seal has been improved with additional Stamina and 
  Intellect. 
- Ring of Protection's armor has been lowered, but the ring's Stamina 
  has been increased. 
- Voodoo Band has been slightly improved. 
- Underworld Band is no longer unique. 
- Filling jars of ooze no longer puts you into combat. 
- The Rod of the Ogre Magi properly sheathes now. 
- hanged the tooltip of the Bloodfang Hood's effect to properly 
  indicate the duration of the stun. 
- The Demon Forged Breastplate effect no longer requires channeling. 
- Tooltips for the Blazefury Medallion, Storm Gauntlets, Fiery Plate 
  Gauntlets Blessed Sunfruit, Blessed Sunfruit Juice, and ragged John's 
  Neverending Cup modified to more appropriately describe their effects. 
- The Amberseal Keeper's melee DPS has been reduced, but an additional 
  +Spell Damage effect has been added instead. 
- Onyxia Hide Backpacks are now 18 slot containers. 
- Warstrike Shoulder Pads have been improved. 
- Living Leggings, Breastplate, and Shoulders now have Stamina, but had 
  their Nature Resistance lowered. 
- Legplates and Legguards of the Chromatic Defier have been improved. 
- The drop rate of Essence of Undead has been lowered. 
- The drop rate for Gift of the Wild and Prayer of Fortitude has been 
  considerably increased. 
- General Drakkisath will now drop 2-4 Blood of the Black Dragon 
  Champion instead of 1. 

Professions 
- A significant number of additional engineering devices have been 
  added to the world both as new recipes on vendors and as drops on 
  monsters in the higher level (50+) dungeons and in raids. 
- Seven new blacksmithing recipes are available to seasoned 
  blacksmiths via a series of turn-in quests. 
- Three new armorsmithing recipes are available to master armorsmiths. 
  All 3 recipes are gained via quest. 
- The Turtle Scale gloves recipe has been changed to have a white name 
  rather than green since it can now be purchased at the store. 
  Generally, recipes with white names are store-bought and ones with 
  green or blue (or purple) names are drops from monsters. 
- Some Blasting Powder icons Changed. 
- Leatherworkers can now make throwing balls (as a toy). 
- Ghostweave Belt pattern is no longer bind on acquire. 
- Randal Worth in Stormwind now only teaches apprentice level 
  leatherworking. 
- Expert Blacksmithing Trainers will now point you to the appropriate 
  artisan smith when you get a high enough skill. 
- Bombs now cause a disorient effect when they go off, this was not 
  working correctly previously. 
- Flame Deflector and Frost Deflector now do an elemental damage absorb 
  rather than a resistance increase. 
- Minor Recombobulator now restores health and mana as well as removing 
  polymorph effects. 
- Target Dummies now generate an initial taunt pulse so creatures will 
  attack them for the first 5 seconds after they are dropped. 
- Gnomish Death Ray damage increased slightly and cooldown reduced to 
  5 minutes. 
- The level of the Mechanical Dragonlings, Battlechicken, and Bombs 
  dropped by the Goblin Bomb Dropper now scale with your engineering 
  skill, so they will be always useful against enemies. Their damage 
  and health has remained the same. 
- Requirements to make the Helm of Fire were reduced. 

Raids & Dungeons 
- Azuregos now has a new ability - Mark of Frost. A player who is hit 
  with the Mark of Frost will be temporarily frozen in a block of ice 
  should they attempt to re-engage Azuregos. Mark of Frost is extremely 
  powerful and will persist through death and resurrection. 
- Bael'gar, Lord Incendius, and Golem Lord Argelmach are now slightly 
  lower level than previously. This will provide a much better 
  progression of creature and boss levels in Blackrock Depths. 
- The Baroness Anastari encounter has been changed. Players who become 
  unpossessed will now have full health, and after the Baroness 
  unpossesses a player there will be a much longer cooldown before she 
  can cast possess again. These changes should make her a more balanced 
  encounter for a 5 man group. 
- Lava Surgers no longer respawn once you kill Garr. 
- When Majordomo Executus submits, a chest is spawned next to him. This 
  chest should only spawn the FIRST time he is defeated in a saved 
  instance. If a guild tries him a second or third night, no chest 
  should spawn. 
- Ragnaros now stays up 2 hours rather than 1 after being summoned. 
- The Golemagg and Shazzrah encounters in the Molten Core has undergone 
  some changes. 
- Scholomance Itemization 
   * 20 new Rare items have been added to Scholomance. 
   * Several Uncommon items have been upgraded to Rare quality. 
   * Rattlegore, Jandice Barov, and Lord Alexei Barov will now always 
     drop at least one Rare item. 
   * Ras Frostwhisper will always drop at least two Rare items. 
- Stratholme Itemization 
   * 26 new Rare items have been added to Stratholme. 
   * Several Uncommon items have been upgraded to Rare quality. 
   *Archivist Galford, Baroness Anastasi, Nerub'enkan, and Maleki the 
    Pallid will now always drop at least one Rare item. 
- Raid Itemization 
   * Onyxia, Azuregos, Lord Kazzak, and all Molten Core boss creatures 
     have all received some new items on their loot tables. 
   * Onyxia will once again drop two upper tier class set helms. 
   * Most of the non-class set items that dropped from Molten Core and 
     Onyxia have had their effective levels increased, resulting in 
     higher DPS weapons, and/or better stats and effects. 
   * Players who defeat the Majordomo Executus encounter will now be 
     rewarded with new epic items. This reward will only be granted the 
     first time the encounter is defeated during the 6 day lifespan of 
     a Molten Core instance. 
   * The loot tables for some of the Molten Core bosses have been 
     improved so they drop an additional epic item per kill. 
   * World bosses such as Onyxia, Azuregos, and Lord Kazzak will no 
     longer drop random blue items of a level lower than 50. 
   * Prior to this patch, Molten Core boss creatures could drop items 
     from one of two different tiered sets for every character class. 
     The loot tables have been changed so Molten Core bosses will now 
     only drop items from the lower tier class sets. However, some of 
     the items from those sets were not previously dropping in Molten 
     Core. These missing class set items will now drop in Molten Core, 
     allowing players to complete their lower tier class sets. The 
     higher tier class set pieces that once dropped in Molten Core will 
     be found once again in Blackwing Lair, the next raiding zone 
     scheduled for release in a future patch. 
   * Future patches will include even more item rewards for these raid 
     encounters, as well as improvements to the statistics, effects, 
     and set bonuses for both tiers of the raid armor sets. 
  
Quests 
- Party quest share information is now working. If you mouse over a 
  quest that multiple party members have, it will display a mouseover 
  tooltip indicating what nearby party member are on that quest. Also, 
  to the left of the quest name in your quest log it will list a 
  number in parenthesis indicating how many other players in your party 
  have that quest. 
- Quest givers who have repeatable quests now display with a blue 
  question mark over their head instead of the standard yellow 
  exclamation point/question mark. 
- The Molten Core discovery quest has had its objective moved from 
  inside the Molten Core to Blackrock Depths. 
- Lunaclaw's spirit should stay around longer before despawning, and 
  the spirit should simply despawn as oppose to "die". 
- The description text for both the Horde and Alliance versions of the 
  "Rabine Saturna" quest have been clarified. 
- The reward text for the "Hive in the Tower" quest has been clarified. 
- Fixed the Resonite Crystal not spawning in the Stonetalon Quest 
  "Earthen Arise." 
- Kinelory in Arathi Highlands is now PvP-enabling, so Horde players 
  who attack her will be flagged for PvP. 
- Quickened Ana'thek the Cruel's (quest target in Stranglethorn) 
  respawn rate. He and his entourage now spawn every 5-8 minutes. 
- Removed Stormwind Faction reward from the Greenwarden quest line in 
  the Wetlands. 
- The time Decrepit Guardians stay spawned (they're the mobs trapping 
  the Annals of Darrowshire in Andorhal) increased from 1 minute to 2 
  minutes. 
- The elementals in the plaguelands no longer attack the Spectral 
  Defenders. 
- The "haunting" radius of Pamela's doll pieces in Darrowshire was 
  reduced. You must now be closer to a doll piece before ghosts appear. 
- Increased the respawn time of Mok'rash in Stranglethorn Vale from 9 
  hours to 2 hours on average. 
- Fixed a bug that caused Razzle in Dun Morogh to become 
  non-interactable. 
- Added text to the Fresh Zhevra Carcass to clarify it's use in the 
  Ishamuhale quest. 
- Typos in various quests have been corrected. 

User Interface 
- Temporary weapon enchantments will now display as buff icons to the 
  right of your normal buff icons. 
- Recipes you already know will not show up in the auction listing if 
  "Usable Items" is checked. 
- The mouseover UI in the bottom right corner will no longer overlay 
  the extra action bars if you have them up. 
- If the subject line is not filled in when you put an item in a piece 
  of mail, it will automatically be filled in with the item being sent. 
- Mousing over the interface options menu will no longer count as a 
  mouseover on objects underneath the interface window (Thus making it 
  hard to set your chat windows to be fully transparent among other 
  things). 
  
World Environment 
- Andorhal has been overhauled to improve framerate, navigability, and 
  monster spawns. 
- Repositioned quest spawns in light of new city layout (tower marker 
  indicators, silos, etc.). 
- Doubled the number of small lockboxes present for the "Counting Out 
  Time" quest. 
- Araj should now spawn as a result of destroying the crystals in the 
  towers of Andorhal. 
- Kardris Dreamseeker is now being addressed properly as a female, 
  rather than a male. 
- There are new load screens for the Stratholme, Scholomance and 
  Blackrock Depths instances. Additionally, many of the previous load 
  screens throughout the world have been replaced with new art. Enjoy! 
- Bloodvenom Post - Crossroads (Horde) no longer flies you through a 
  tree. Sorry for the scrapes and bruises. 
- Shalzaru's Lair on the Isle of Dread off the coast of Feralas now 
  properly displays its name when you enter the cave. 
- The dragon bones just to the southwest of The Swarming Pillar in 
  Silithus have been named the Bones of Grakkarond. 
- The levels of the NPCs in Camp Mojache have been raised to be 
  commensurate with their counterparts at Feathermoon Stronghold. 
- Patrolling scouts that can see through stealth and invisibility 
  have been added to Darnassus, Stormwind City, Undercity and Thunder 
  Bluff. 
- The range of restock time for Argent Dawn vendors has been widened. 
- Cairne Bloodhoof is now a little more talkative. 
- High Priest Rohan is now properly associated with the Ironforge 
  faction. 
- Grimand Elmore in Stormwind is more talkative. 
- Town Criers in all the major cities now have basic gossip text. 
- More references to the fictitious locale of "Chillwind Point" have 
  been squashed in favor of the very real "Chillwind Camp". 
- Players will no longer get stuck in a location in the Ruins of 
  Eldarath in Azshara. 
- Fires in Thunder Axe Fortress in Desolace now have proper names. 
- No longer a tree floating off the ground in the Sishir Canyon area 
  of the Stonetalon Mountains. 
- There is no longer a floating tree in Westfall above the defias 
  tower. 
- There are no longer fish flying around above the water line in 
  Silverpine Forest. 
- Female orcs no longer get stuck in scaffolding in Lost Rigger Cove. 
- Removed a crate that was clipping through a tent/hut in Coldridge 
  Valley. 
- Removed the terrain that popped in and out of the crevice in the 
  entrance to Foothold Citadel on Theramore Isle. 
- Properly named the intact watchtower near Southshore. 
- The Rainsticks sign in Thunderbluff is no longer floating. 
- Removed floating object from Nijel's Point in Desolace. 
- Removed an invisible collision wall located in the Barrens near 
  the Bramblescar area. 
- Players can no longer kill creatures with ranged attacks while the 
  mobs are unable to damage the player when standing atop the cauldrons 
  in Eastern Plaguelands. 
- Closed a hole in the world in the Searing Gorge. 
- There is no longer a hole in the world at Dun Garok. 
- The minimum level requirement on the Dire Maul meeting stone has 
  been properly assigned. 
- The minimum level requirement on the Temple of Atal'Hakkar Meeting 
  Stone has been properly assigned. 
- The minimum level requirement on the Blackrock Spire Meeting Stone
  has been properly assigned. 
- There is no longer a hole in the world in Raven Hill, Duskwood. 
- A tree located too far above the ground in Feralas has been 
  "replanted". 
- The dock on the Forgotten Coast in Feralas is no longer partially 
  floating above the ground. 
- There is no longer water missing from the pool by the Grimtotems 
  in the Lower Wilds of Feralas. 
- A rock that was sitting above the ground at the top of one of the 
  falls in Nighthaven has landed. 
- Players no longer will get stuck in a location at Gurubashi Arena 
  in Stranglethorn Vale. 
- Major Mana potions buy/sell price slightly increased. 
- Aggro radius of Bears and Wolves in Silverpine have been reduced. 
- The Dry times in Ironforge have ended and the Stonefire Tavern in 
  Ironforge now has alcohol again. 
- Fixed a grammatical error in one of Captain Kromcrush's yells in 
  Dire Maul. 
- Mizzle the Crafty in Dire Maul shouldn't be so repetitive in 
  proclaiming a new king if the player cycles through gossip too 
  quickly. 
- Williden Marshal's gossip text has been polished. 

Macs 
- The keyboard shortcut to quit the game has been changed to 
  Command-Option-Q to work around an issue with PowerBooks. 
 
Bug Fixes 
- Fixed a bug where weapon skills were inappropriately capped at 5 
  times level. Characters should now gain benefit from weapon skill 
  bonuses beyond their normal cap. 
- Fixed portrait creation while alt-tabbed away from the game. 
- Fixed sorting items in the auction house by current bid. 
- Blessing of Sacrifice only transfers the damage dealt, up to the 
  maximum listed in the tooltip. 
- The "created by" tags are visible again when you inspect someone. 
- Effects that indicated that they increased damage and healing by 
  all magical spells were actually not improving healing. They now 
  will properly increase healing by the listed the amount. 
- Extra attacks gained from spells and abilities are applied 
  immediately and do not affect normal combat swing time. 
- Abilities which do an additional percentage of weapon damage now 
  include attack power as part of the base weapon damage. 
- Fixed race condition where damage would sometimes be applied after 
  Ice Block or Divine Shield are activated. 
- Ranged attacks use the target's defense skill instead of target's 
  level to determine chance to hit. 
- Fixed bug where ranged attackers would run up and engage you in 
  melee combat. 
- Pets and summons will now go with you if you use a hearthstone or 
  other long range teleport. 
- Fixed mouse selection bug when opening bags while the auction 
  interface is open. 
- There is no longer water missing on the shore of Jademir Lake in 
  Oneiros in Feralas. 
- Fixed a typo in the tooltip for the Field Repair Bot 74A. 
- Fixed the geometry of the Branchclaw gloves. 
- Lost Souls will now drop their Wispy Cloaks and Tormented Spirits 
  will drop their Ghostly Bracers every time they die now. 
- Whistle of the Mottled Red Raptor's buff icon now lists the mount 
  as being a Mottled Red Raptor instead of a Crimson Raptor. 
- Ancona creature name changed to Ancona Chicken. 
- The wording of item resistance enchantments has been made more 
  consistent. 
- Roast Raptor now has an more appropriate inventory sound. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.3.2 (2005-04-04)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Version 1.3.2 is a Mac OS X only patch.
- the Vertex Animation Shader feature is disabled for GPU's such as
  the Radeon 8500,9000, and 9200 series.  We expect to re-enable this
  functionality in a future patch.
- New code optimizations were added to improve frame rate and reduce
  memory usage.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.3.1 (2005-03-24)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- We have fixed a crash bug that would happen infrequently when
  teleporting.
- We have fixed a UI error that could occur in certain zones.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.3.0 (2005-03-22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Diremaul
  Diremaul, a new dungeon for players level 56-60, is now open and
  ready for business. Diremaul is populated by a fierce tribe of ogres
  and is located in the western region of Feralas. Diremaul will be
  limited groups of no more than five players each.
 
New Outdoor Raid Bosses
  Two new outdoor raid bosses have been introduced to Azeroth. 
  Azuregos, a monstrous blue dragon, has landed in Azshara, while
  Lord Kazzak the demon can be found in the Tainted Scar of the Blasted
  Lands. 
 
Meeting Stones
  Meeting Stones are located outside of each dungeon to help players 
  find a group to adventure with in the dungeon. The meeting stone will 
  try to find you a viable five-person group by looking for a tank, a 
  healer, and so on. As time passes and you are unable to find a group, 
  the meeting stone will become less picky about who it groups you with.

Dungeon Player Caps
  All dungeons now have a cap on group size to limit the number of 
  players that may enter the dungeon. It was necessary to add this cap
  as raiding these dungeons trivialized much of the content. Because of
  this change we can now look to adding better loot to them during future
  content patches.

  With that in mind, the dungeons below now have the following caps:
  Onyxia/Molten Core - 40 members
  Blackrock Spire - 15 members
  Diremaul -  5 members
  All other dungeons in the game will be capped at 10 members.
  Several dungeons will be re-examined for balancing in light of this
  change.  In addition, will have their loot improved significatnly for
  the next content patch.

 General
- Previously, in many cases, a Block, Parry, or Dodge was translated 
  into a "Miss," thus causing confusion over actual miss rates.  We've 
  made the following changes in an attempt to be more clear as to what 
  is  actually happening in combat:
   * Block: All creatures will now report a Block on attacks from the 
     front, reducing damage caused instead of converting the attack into
     a "Miss." Creatures will no longer be able to Block attacks from 
     behind.
   * Dodge: Every time a creature Dodges, it will report a Dodge. We 
     will no longer translate a creature's Dodge of a rear attack to a 
     "Miss."
   * Parry:  All creatures will now report a Parry on attacks from the 
     front instead of translating them into a "Miss." Creatures will no 
     longer be able to Parry attacks from behind.  
- Blocking an ability that takes place on the next swing now blocks the
  normal amount of damage instead of all of it.
- Skill-up rate improved for bows, crossbows, guns, thrown, and wands.
- Improved line of sight for large creatures.
- In-game mail sent from GMs will now use official Blizzard stationery.
- The Drunk effect has been greatly enhanced.
- If you resurrect without releasing your spirit, your resurrection 
  timer will decrease normally.
- You can no longer accept a warlock summoning while you are in combat.
- Increased stun resistance will now also help resist some non-melee 
  based stun spells from creatures.
- Mounts now are Horde or Alliance restricted in the tooltip. We do 
  not intend to allow Horde players to ride Alliance vendor-purchased 
  mounts and vice versa.

 PvP
- Most humanoids NPCs have gained the ability to swim.
- Numbers and punctuation will not be passed through chat communication 
  to members of the opposing faction.
- Spells in PvP now have a slight increase in range and area of effect 
  when targets are moving. This should improve the overall usability of 
  spells and ranged attacks.
- Priests can no longer kill players with Shadow Word: Pain and Mind 
  Control in duels.
- Certain key NPCs (such as bankers and auctioneers) in the cities and
  main outposts are now harder to kill. Additionally, when they die, 
  they will respawn more quickly.
- Patrolling scouts that can see through stealth and invisibility have 
  been added to both Orgrimmar and Ironforge.
- Players under Mind Control pass reputation changes due to kills to 
  the controlling player, and do not receive the reputation
  changes themselves.
- You cannot see your enemies' buffs while you are charmed.
- Dueling players can now cast helpful spells on their allies 
  (but not vice versa).
  
 Druid
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Rebirth - Casting time and mana cost reduced; now ignores 
  resurrection timers.
- Swiftshifting - Talent changed. When leaving a shapeshift form, the 
  next shapeshift form you take will have a 20%/40%/60% mana cost 
  reduction if used within 6 seconds.
- Gift of the Wild - This spell is now cast on the target's party.
- Cat Form - DPS increase at levels 40-60.
- New Ability (Cat Form): Ferocious Bite (available at level 32) - 
  Finishing move that causes damage per combo point and converts each 
  extra point of energy into additional damage.
- New Spell: Barkskin (available at level 44) - The druid's skin 
  becomes as tough as bark.  Physical damage taken is reduced. While 
  protected, taking damage will not cause spellcasting delays, but 
  non-instant spells take longer to cast and melee combat is slowed.
- New Ability (Bear Form): Frenzied Regeneration (available at level 
  36) - Converts an amount of rage into health every second for a 
  short duration.

 Hunter
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Sandfury Guardians are no longer tameable.
- Fixed a bug where Hunter pets were sometimes unattackable by opposing 
  faction players.
- Fixed a bug where creatures were keeping their innate resistances 
  after being tamed.  This was unintentional and the fix will affect 
  all existing pets.
- Distracting Shot - Is now properly improved by the Efficiency and 
  Hawk Eye talents.
- You can no longer use Eyes of the Beast to leave a flight path.

 Mage
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Improved Blizzard - Chill duration reduced to 1.5 seconds (4.5 
  seconds w/ Permafrost) and refreshes with each damage tick rather 
  than at the beginning of the spell. In addition, a target that 
  resists the damage will also resist the chill effect.
- Blink - Using this spell should no longer cause you to fall through 
  the world.
- Blink can now be used to escape more of the stun effects used by 
  creatures in the world.
- Blink is no longer useable on boats or zeppelins.
- Blast Wave damage radius fixed so damage properly extends to 10 yd.
- Dampen Magic - Duration and mana cost increased. Now castable on all 
  raid targets.
- Amplify Magic - Duration and mana cost increased. Now castable on all 
  raid targets.
- Frost/Ice Armor - Mana cost reduced.
- New Spell: Mage Armor (Available at level 34) - Allows for 30% of 
  mana regeneration to function while casting and increases resistance 
  to all magic schools. Does not stack with Frost/Ice Armor.
- New Spell: Conjure Water (Rank 7) (Available through quest at 
  level 60).
- Arcane Missiles: Fixed a bug where the spell would not function 
  properly against spell-reflecting targets.
    
 Paladin
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Blessing of Protection - Now castable on all raid targets.
- Blessing of Sacrifice - Now castable on all raid targets.
- Blessing of Salvation - Now castable on all raid targets.
- Divine Intervention - Now castable on all raid targets.

 Priest
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Holy Fire - Fixed a bug with the bonus damage gained from +fire 
  damage items. Such items now have a greater effect on this spell.
- Prayer of Fortitude - This spell is now cast on the target's party.
- Power Word: Shield - Now castable on all raid targets.

 Rogue
- A number of areas in the world now have footlockers in them.  
  These areas are in place for rogues to visit to increase their 
  lockpicking skills. The contents of these footlockers are only token 
  amounts of treasure, but they should allow for a more interesting 
  experience while increasing lockpicking skill. The difficulty of the 
  locks in the area correspond to the level of the zone, so if your 
  lockpicking skill is around 100, you would go to Durnholde Keep in 
  Hillsbrad. But if your skill is 250, you might head to Tyr’s Hand in 
  Eastern Plaguelands.
   * Hillsbrad Foothills - Durnholde Keep
   * Redridge Mountains - Lake Everstill
   * Ashenvale Forest - Zoram Strand
   * Stonetalon Mountains - Windshear Crag and Associated Mines
   * Wetlands - Murloc Camps
   * Desolace - Sar'theris Strand
   * Badlands - Angor Fortress
   * Swamp of Sorrows - Pool of Tears
   * Searing Gorge - The Slag Pit
   * Tanaris Desert - Lost Rigger Cove
   * Azshara - Bay of Storms
   * Eastern Plaguelands - Tyr's Hand (elite)
- Very high-end gems will no longer be acquired from junk boxes or 
  pickpocketing.
- Added a visual to Sword Specialization "proc" that will now show up 
  in the combat log as well.

 Shaman
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Tremor Totem - Now creates the appropriate looking earth totem; 
  tooltip updated to clarify what effects it counters; radius of effect 
  increased; now pulses more frequently.
- Astral Recall - The tooltip now includes the home point the spell 
  will recall you to.
- We've changed the spell icon of several totem spells. They should now 
  all be unique.
- Searing Totem - Damage slightly increased.
- Reincarnation - No longer causes resurrection sickness.

 Warlock
- Improved Drain Mana - Will now report to the combat log all damage 
  caused.
- Inferno - The duration the Infernal is enslaved when first summoned 
  has been increased. The area of effect damage caused by the Inferno 
  spell, and all threat generated by it, will now originate from the 
  Infernal. The Infernal will now immediately attack targets within the 
  radius of the spell.
- Enslave Demon - Is no longer dispellable.
- Curse of Agony - Now benefits from items that increase shadow damage.
- Nightfall - Fixed a bug where the Shadow Trance effect was lost 
  without benefit. Previously, the talent had a 3%/4% chance of 
  triggering. It now has a 2%/4% chance of triggering, and the tooltips 
  have been updated to accurately reflect this change.
- Ritual of Doom - The death caused at the completion of the ritual no 
  longer causes durability loss.
- Firestone - Equipping Firestones will now increase damage caused by 
  fire spells.
- Spellstone - Equipping Spellstones will now improve your chance to 
  get a critical strike with spells.
- Fear - Mana cost changed to a percentage of base, which results in an 
  increase in cost.
- The Shadow Trance buff granted by the Nightfall talent will no longer 
  be used up by a shadowbolt that was in mid-cast.
  
 Warrior
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was slightly increased.
- Battle Shout - Rage cost reduced.
- Bloodrage - Health cost reduced.
- Heroic Strike - Damage increased.
- Parry - Moved to level 6.
- Thunder Clap - Now causes Physical damage instead of Nature damage; 
  damage increased; duration increased with each new rank.
  Improved Sunder Armor - Now decreases rage cost by 1/1/1.
  Improved Thunder Clap - Now decreases rage cost by 1/1/2.
- Execute - Full rage is no longer consumed when the ability does not 
  hit.
- Overpower - Should now be usable when a special attack is dodged.
- Fixed a bug where rage was not being generated when normal melee 
  attacks were parried, dodged, and blocked.
- Charge has been improved so it will work through doorways and won't 
  path you through an entire dungeon.
- Sweeping Strikes bug fixed. It will hit more reliably and show up 
  in combat log correctly.
- Added a visual to Sword Specialization "proc" that will now show up 
  in the combat log as well.
    
 Monsters
- Ogres in Azeroth have undergone a visual upgrade.
- Yeti will no longer flee when at low health.
- Mummified Atal'ai will no longer cast Fevered Plague so often.
- Some outdoor creatures will now use their Fear abilities less often.
- Reduced the number of pirates on the boats in Stranglethorn Vale.
- Reduced the number of Syndicate in Strahnbrad.
- Reduced the respawn rate of the troggs on the islands in Loch Modan.
- Some wildlife that was stationary in Desolace should now be more 
  active.
- Mechanical Whelps have been boosted by five levels in order 
  to be effective longer. Their damage has been slightly decreased to 
  compensate for the additional damage that would have occured with 
  the change.
- Battle Chicken has had its level boosted by five.
- The monster ability Skull Crack now only stuns for two seconds 
  instead of six.
- Warbringer Constructs now have less armor than before.

 Items
- The Reactive Mana set bonus effect on the Arcanist set had an 
  incorrect tooltip. The proper chance of the effect triggering is 1%, 
  not 100%.
- Restorative Elixir tooltip is now more clear.
- Weightstones may now be used on fist Weapons.
- Postmaster's Treads now have stats more appropriate for cloth
  wearers.
- Crown of the Penitent effect made more appropriate for the quality 
  and level of item.
- Bloodlust Epaulets stats improved to the appropriate amount for the 
  item's level and quality.
- The effect of the Spirit of Aquamentas and Choker of Enlightenment 
  has changed to a +damage and +healing of all spell schools effect.
- Ramstein's Lightning Bolts effect reduced to 200 points of damage and
  a 10-yard radius.
- Magister's Mantle, Robe, Belt, Crown, and Binding changed to include 
  more stamina in lieu of spirit.
- Gnomish earrings will no longer appear outside the Bloodlust Helm.
- Deathstriker name changed to Felstriker.
- The Lion Horn of Stormwind now properly gives AC to members of the 
  party.
- Priests can now use scrolls and the Heart of Noxxion while in 
  Shadowform.
- The costs of Enriched Manna Biscuits, Blessed Sunfruit, and Blessed 
  Sunfruit Juice have been lowered to 60 silver per stack of five.
- The buff effect of Blessed Sunfruit has been changed from Stamina 
  to Strength. 
- Horn of the Arctic Wolf now correctly summons an arctic wolf 
  (Instead of a light-gray one).
- White Bandit Mask is now Uncommon and Bind on Equip.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Judgement Sabatons to have two instances 
  of Spirit.
- Green Lens item can no longer call Stamina as one of its random 
  properties. Existing Green Lens have not been changed.
- Frenzied Striker is now Bind on Equip instead of Bind on Pick Up.
- Sorcerer Sphere is no longer Warlock only.
- Twilight Orb is no longer Warlock only.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Dog Training Gloves to not be Bind on 
  Pick Up.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Thrash Blade, Flurry Axe, and Ironfoe to 
  have an additional attack when the effect went off.
- Fixed a bug on Gearforge Girdle (awarded by the Felwood quest, A 
  Final Blow) that caused it to have more stats than it should. It 
  no longer has +12 defense.
- Shadowcraft Boots now have +21 Agility instead of +21 Intellect.
- Fixed a bug with Jungle Remedy that was causing it to be on the 
  non-combat potion timer of three seconds. It is now on the combat 
  potion timer of two minutes.
- Fixed a bug with Fist of Stone that caused it to have stats that it 
  shouldn’t have. Existing Fist of Stone items have not been changed.
- Finkle’s Skinner is now Main hand only.
- Drop rates of gems have been increased at lower levels and decreased 
  at higher levels.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Outrunner’s Cord to appear incorrectly 
  on characters.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Vosh’gajin’s Strand to appear 
  incorrectly on characters.
- Fixed a bug that was causing Omokk’s Girth Restrainer to appear 
  incorrectly on characters.
- Holy spell damage bonuses will no longer appear on random property 
  items.
- Silithus has been itemized.
- Royal Seal of Alexis no longer drops off of Baron Bloodbane. It is 
  now only obtainable via the quest Ramstein, no longer has a 
  minimum level requirement, and is Bind on Acquire. Existing Royal 
  Seal of Alexis items have not been changed.
- 16-slot bags are now set to Uncommon.
- Razorlash Root should now restore mana as intended and should no 
  longer apply the first aid debuff.
- Re-worded tooltips on Shard of Afrasa and Demon’s Blood to better 
  explain their effects.
- Changed the tooltip on random property items with the suffixes "of 
  Concentration" and "of Regeneration" to more clearly state their 
  effects.
- Lunar Wands that drop should now have random properties.
- Hurley Blackbreath’s treasure table has been modified.
- Rend’s treasure table has been modified.
- Goraluk Anvilcrack treasure table has been modified.
- General Drakkisath treasure table has been modified.
- Deathcharger’s Reins can now be used by Tauren.
- Items that periodically restore health and mana no longer show up 
  in the combat log.
- Vanquisher’s Sword and Amberglow Talisman, the rewards for the 
  quests Bring the Light (Alliance) and Bring the End (Horde), have 
  been upgraded to be rare instead of uncommon.
- Modified Crystal Charge, Crystal Force, Crystal Restore, Crystal 
  Spire, Crystal Ward, and Crystal Yield to be on appropriate cooldown 
  timers. Completing the Crystal Pylon quest to obtain them will now 
  reward five each instead of three.
- Mark of the Dragon Lord has had its visual changed to better fit its 
  effect, and the tooltip has been corrected.


 Professions
- A new engineering recipe is available in Blackrock Depths for 
  a repair robot. This robot acts as a repair vendor for 10 minutes 
  and will repair and purchase items for normal cost. This will allow 
  dungeon groups and raids to get items repaired and sold without 
  returning to town.
- The Horde version of the tribal leatherworking quest now requires 
  the appropriate amount of leatherworking skill to complete. 
- The item requirements for the elemental leatherworking quest have 
  been lowered from four of each kind of elemental item to two.
- A number of high-end profession reagents were changed to good 
  quality (green) to indicate their value and so that they are 
  distributed properly by group loot (Essences, Orbs of Righteousness, 
  etc.).
- All of the creation professions have had one or more dropped recipes 
  added to raid level targets.
- Bottomless Bag requires significantly more mooncloth and two core 
  leather to make now.
- Invulnerability Potion - Now makes you immune to all physical attacks 
  and damage rather than just damage.
- The effects of flasks and elixirs are no longer dispellable.  This 
  should make their use more compelling in PvP situations.
- Fused Wiring will now drop more often from target dummies.  
- Quickdraw Quiver now requires cured thick hide (instead of thick 
  hide) as one of its required components.
- Crimson Lotus changed to a gray item as it is currently unused by 
  professions.
- Green Lens now requires more ingredients to make, but has special 
  effects rather than just stats on it.
- Red dragonscales have had their vendor price reduced.
- Drop rates of very high-end gems have been somewhat increased on rich 
  thorium veins.
- Improvements have been made to many potions: Troll's Blood potions, 
  Stoneshield potions, Magic Resistance potions, Flasks of Power, and 
  Greater Defense potions.
- Chimeric Glove recipe is no longer bind on pick up.
- There is now a recipe at leatherworking trainers that allows thick 
  leather to be turned into rugged leather.
- Turtle Scale Gloves recipe has been added to vendors in Feralas to 
  make completion of the tribal leatherworking quest easier.
- You will now catch ocean fish when fishing from Rut’theran village.
- The cooking trainer in Dolanaar now sells cooking recipes for 
  several types of fish.
- Owls in Teldrassil now drop more eggs than they used to.
- A new type of turtle is now found on the beaches of northern Tanaris 
  in the level 42-43 range. They can be skinned for turtle scales.
- The Recipes for Robe of the Void, Robe of the Archmage, and Truefaith 
  Vestments are no longer soulbound.
- Engineering guns level 40 and above now have attributes on them to 
  bring them in line with the random property guns.
- Cooking recipe, Tender Wolf Steak, added to vendors in Aerie Peaks 
  and Gadgetzan. Allows players to cook tender wolf meat.
- Horde cooks can now cook up raptor eggs from a recipe found in 
  Gromgol and Hammerfall.
- Elixir of Giants duration increased to 60 minutes.
- Shadowskin Gloves recipe added so there is a non-rare recipe that 
  requires Shadowcat Hide.
- Hot Wolf Ribs now count as meat for purposes of being fed to 
  hunter pets. 
- Mooncloth recipe moved to a different vendor in Everlook.
- Storm Gauntlets fixed so they deliver their lightning damage 
  correctly.
- Enchantment for boots that increase speed improved significantly.
  
 Raids & Dungeons
- "Raid lockout" is fixed.  If the leader of your raid group is saved 
  in a different instance than you would otherwise go to, you are added
  to your leader's instance. 
- Added /raidinfo command showing remaining time on saved raid 
  instances.  Also shows an ID to compare with other players (if you 
  have the same saved ID as them, you will go into the same instance) 
- Added a chat window message when you are first saved to an instance.
- Raid members will show up on the world map.
- If you enter an instance in a group, and then leave that group, you 
  will not be able to complete quest objectives until you rejoin the 
  group.
- Extended the decay time of boss corpses in dungeons.
- Lengthened the respawn time of many of the creatures in Ragefire 
  Chasm, Gnomeregan, Uldaman, Razorfen Downs, Scholomance, and 
  Stratholme.
- Molten Core
   * Molten Core is now on a 6-day respawn timer.
   * Added in-game voice for Ragnaros and Majordomo Executus.
   * Fixed an issue that was causing the first Firelord to stop moving.
   * Garr will now lose his enrage buff when he leaves combat.
   * Majordomo Executus will now make the Flamewaker Healers immune to 
     polymorph at the appropriate time, even after failed attempts.
   * Bringing Flamewaker Healers too far away from Majordomo Executus 
     will now result in the Healers becoming immune to Polymorph.
   * Line of Sight checks removed from many creature abilities in 
     Molten Core.
   * Sons of Flame now despawn when everyone wipes.
   * Ragnaros will reset properly if the raid wipes while submerged.
- Onyxia
   * Onyxia's fireballs will no longer result in a confuse effect 
     (Engulfing Flames). The impact damage of these fireballs has been 
     slightly increased to compensate for the loss of the damage 
     over time.
   * Onyxia's egg pit will now heat up when she does a strafe breath 
     across the room.
   * Onyxian Warders now respawn in the hallway while Onyxia is in 
     combat.
   * Increased the delay before Onyxia will try to tail sweep.
   * Fixed a bug that could cause Onyxia to occasionally not reset 
     correctly.
   * Fixed a bug that was causing Onyxia to get stuck under the world
   * Players no longer leave combat while Onyxia is in flight.
   * The Onyxia Key quest for the Horde has experienced some changes.
   * The Test of Skulls for Scryer, Somnus, and Chronalis can now all 
     be obtained simultaneously. The drop rates for black dragonspawn 
     eyes have been increased substantially.
- Stratholme
   * Baroness Anastasi in Stratholme will now leave the possessed 
     target when the target is below 50% health, instead of 30%. She 
     will also cast Possession slightly less often.
   * Roaming Gargoyles will be set to a 30-minute respawn.
   * Roaming Shades set to 15-30 minute respawn (previously 5-15).
   * Patchwork Horrors set to 15-30 minute respawn (previously 6-10). 
   * Overall respawn in the entire dungeon made longer.
   * Crimson Conjurers will no longer roam in pairs.
   * Crimson Conjurers can now only have a max of two "pets" at 
     one time.
   * Changed the way the Gauntlet area works. The Crystals no longer 
     respawn. 
   * The Crystals no longer fire ribbon of souls (this was causing 
     in-combat issues).
   * Fixed a bug that was causing monsters to leave combat in 
     mid-fight, thus regaining all their health. 
   * Various tweaks made to the Baroness encounter.
- Scholomance
   * Lengthened the overall respawn of the dungeon.
   * Risen Aberration health and damage reduced.
   * Reduced the duration of Dark Plague from three minutes to 90 
     seconds.
   * Fixed a bug that caused the Cloud of Disease spell, cast by 
     Diseased Ghouls, to do more damage than intended.
   * Blood of Innocents will now drop off both Doctor Theolen 
     Krastinov (The Butcher) and Jandice Barov for players that have 
     completed the Sarkhoff questline in Scholomance.
   * Shadow resistance now will be more effective at mitigating the 
     damage from Unholy Aura.
   * The creature spell, Call of the Grave, has had its damage reduced 
     by half.
- Blackrock Spire
   * Spire Spiders now only summon four Spire Spiderlings instead of 
     five. 
   * Health and damage on these Spire Spiderlings has been reduced.
   * Crystallize has been reduced from eight seconds to six seconds.
   * Some Blackrock Spire bosses will now properly display their true 
     level, instead of being considered world bosses (who do not 
     display level).
- Blackrock Depths
   * The doors to the Lyceum will now re-open after Magmus has been 
     killed.
   * Vault encounter has been toned down slightly.
   * Mind Flay and Cripple will now work on Blackrock Depths bosses.
- Maraudon
   * Princess Theradras - Boulders thrown will now cause a knockdown as 
     well. She will also be more intelligent about deciding when to use 
     her Dust Field ability.
   * Noxxion encounter made easier for groups lacking area of effect 
     damage.
   * Creeping Sludge poison proc has been changed to a pulsing 
     point-blank area of effect short-range damage spell called Poison 
     Shock.
- Zul'Farrak
   * Dead Hero will now always drop an uncommon random item.
   * Witch Doctor Zum'rah's loot table was improved.
   * Toned down the Zigguraut event.
   * Toned down the Antu'sul event.
   * Fixed stuck NPCs that were causing "in combat" issues.
   * Scarabs will no longer flee when at low health.
- Scarlet Monastery
   * Doors requiring the Scarlet Key can now also be opened with a 
     Large Seaforium Charge in addition to the lockpick ability.
- Gnomeregan
   * Doors requiring the Workshop Key can now be opened with a Small 
     Seaforium Charge.
- Deadmines
   * The "cannon door" can now be opened with a Small Seaforium Charge 
     in addition to the lockpick ability.

 Quests
- Quests that take you into dungeons are now denoted "Dungeon" in the 
  quest log, and are sorted under the dungeon to which they take you. 
- Decrepit Guardians in Andorhal were changed to non-elite. 
- The Heroes of Darrowshire quest in Eastern Plaguelands now gives an
  experience reward. 
- Increased the drop rate of Shadowmaw Claws for Mok'thardin's 
  Enchantment.
- Fixed an issue with the Green Hills of Stranglethorn quest. If 
  players destroy one of the chapters, Barnil will now help them 
  relocate it.
- The quest, Scarlet Diversions, should now be easier to complete.
- Reduced the speed at which the Magrami ghosts are attracted to the 
  Ghost Magnet in the Ghost-o-plasm Round Up quest.  Modified quest 
  text to suggest players move away from where they place their magnet. 
- Princess Poobah now waits for 60 seconds before despawning after the
  completion of the Message in a Bottle quest. 
- Fixed pathing on the assassins of the Protect Kanati Greycloud quest,
  to prevent them from getting stuck. 
- Arei the Treant is now PvP-enabled.  If Horde players attack him
  while Alliance players are escorting him, the Horde players will now
  be flagged for PvP. 
- The It’s Dangerous to Go Alone quest in Un’goro no longer requires 
  a deprecated item to complete. 
- The health of the Corrupted Saber (escortee in the Corrupted Sabers 
  quest) was increased. 
- The Scarab Shells quest in Zul’Farrak’s item requirement was reduced 
  from nine Uncracked Scarab Shells to five
- Zaricotl no longer drops an NYI (Not Yet In) quest item (the Pocked 
  Black Box) for Horde players. 
- The epic item questline for the turning in of the Beast's hide has 
  had its monetary requirements lowered to 50 gold. 
- The Molten Core Dark Iron turn-in quests (Favor Amongst the 
  Brotherhood) have had several major changes. Turning in Dark Iron Ore 
  will now result in half of its previous faction reward. However, the 
  turn-in requirements for Fiery Core, Core Leather, and Lava Core have 
  been substantially reduced and their faction rewards quadrupled. 
- For the Kodo Roundup quest in Desolace, bringing a Tamed Kodo back to 
  Smeed Scrabblescrew now works. 
- The King of the Foulweald quest event in Ashenvale now has the 
  Enraged Foulwealds spawn as soon as Karang’s Banner is placed. 
- The Zamek’s Distraction quest event in Thousand Needles now causes 
  Rizzle to leave his hut (and leave his Indurium Plans behind). 
- End quest added to Hydraxis quest line, offering players a reward. 
- The amount of waves players must fight in the Belnistrasz quest event
  has been reduced. 
- Argent Dawn Valor Tokens, Minion’s Scourgestones, Invader’s 
  Scourgestones, and Corruptor’s Scourgestones now stack in quantities 
  greater than 20. 
- You may now turn in Thorium Shells in exchange for Thorium Headed 
  Arrows. Both Orgrimmar and Ironforge have a turn-in NPC.
- Smudge Thunderbrew in Ravenholdt Manor now sells the recipe for 
  Thistle Tea to those rogues who completed the quest and inadvertently 
  destroyed their recipes. 
- The Horde version of the quest A Call to Arms: The Plaguelands! 
  should now only be available once after accepting the quest. 
- The text for the Je’neu and the Earthen Ring quest has been 
  clarified. 
- The completion point for the The Fragments Within quest should now 
  appear in the mini-map. 
- The Araj's Scarab quest should now properly reflect that it is an 
  elite difficulty quest. 
- The WANTED: Murkeep! quest is now sharable. 
- The duration of Arcane Quickeners has been increased to 30 minutes. 
- The reward for completing the quest Morrowgrain to 
  Feathermoon Stronghold has been increased to 10 packets of seeds per 
  five morrowgrain. 
- The Evergreen Pouch as used by Herbalists with a skill of 150+ has 
  been modified. 
- The chance of getting morrowgrain when the pouch is used has been 
  slightly increased. 
- The Order Must Be Restored quest now gives a Stormwind reputation 
  boost upon completion. 
- The Roll the Bones quest has been lowered in level. 
- There are now more lockboxes available in the Ruins of Andorhal for 
  the Counting Out Time quest. 
- The Mangled Journal found in Un’Goro Crater now drops for all members 
  of a group. 
- The Shattered Necklace in Badlands and Uldaman now drops for all 
  members of a group. 
- The Winterfall Activity quest is now available to players who are 
  at the minimum point of Friendly reputation with the Timbermaw 
  Furbolgs. 
- Ghede and Jenal in the Un’Goro Soil quest now appear in the 
  mini-map when it is time to talk to them.  It is also clearer where 
  they are in the quest text. 
- Quests marked as Gadgetzan in the header of the quest log should now 
  be displayed as Tanaris. 
- Typos fixed for many quests. 
    
 Pets
- Pets in defensive mode that respond to attacks will no longer flag
  their masters for PvP.  If the master issues an explicit attack 
  command, the master will be flagged.
- You can issue pet commands while you are stunned, fleeing, etc.
- Pets and summons no longer get stuck when you get on a boat or 
  zeppelin.
- Non-aggressive enemy NPCs no longer attack pets and summons.

 Faction & Reputation
- Felicia Maline in Stormwind is now giving a discount on gryphon rides 
  for players who have Honored or greater reputation with Stormwind. 
- The Argent Dawn is offering new rewards to heroes who are Revered and 
  Exalted to the Dawn.  Speak to a quartermaster of the Argent Dawn for 
  more information! 
- If a player is under the effects of mind control by another player, 
  then reputation adjustments for killing creatures go to the 
  controlling player. 
- Larger factions (Horde, Alliance, Steamwheedle Cartel, etc.) now 
  report reputation increases and decreases across the board if so 
  affected. 
- Rivern Frostwind’s death no longer gives reputation adjustments for 
  Horde and Alliance factions. 
- Winterfall Pathfinders in Winterspring now give Timbermaw reputation 
  adjustments when killed. 
- The loss of overall reputation when a player loses reputation at the 
  higher tiers of a faction (Friendly, Honored, Revered, Exalted) has 
  been substantially reduced.  
    
 User Interface
- You can now have multiple action bars onscreen at the same time.   
- You can activate the additional action bars through the Interface
  options menu.
- You can now have quest completion criteria for the quests you are 
  currently on display on the game screen as well as in the quest log.   
  If you shift-click on a quest in the quest log, it will display the 
  completion criteria on the main game screen underneath the mini-map.
- You will now be able to tell how many other players in your group 
  have the same quest you do.  When you are in a group, it will display 
  the number of other players in the group who have the quest in 
  parenthesis to the left of the quest name.  If you mouse over the 
  quest name, it will display the names of the other players in the 
  party who have the quest in the bottom right hand corner of the 
  screen.
- Chat bubbles have been added to the game.  Now when a player or NPC 
  uses a /say or /yell chat command, it is displayed in the game screen 
  by default as a chat bubble as well as in the chat log. It displays 
  above the head of the character talking, but only if you can see the 
  character. This functionality can be turned off should you desire. 
  This functionality also exists for party chat, but is turned off by 
  default. Both options are turned on or off in the "Interface" options
  window.
- The /bug and /suggest commands have been removed from the game.
  This functionality was mainly for beta test purposes and not intended
  for our live audience.  To submit bug reports, please petition a GM.
  To make a suggestion about the game, please use the Suggestions forum
  on the WorldofWarcraft.com website.
- Level information is no longer available to the scripting system for 
  dangerously high-level enemies.
- Improved client performance with chat filter enabled.
- Added /golfclap.
- You can no longer change armor sets while your enemies are stunned.
- If more than one player ties a loot roll, a random player will 
  receive the loot.
- Monster tooltips now display the hostile color in an easier to read 
  shade of red.
- Loot sparkles will disappear appropriately after group loot or master 
  loot is distributed.
- An option has been added to display the time remaining on your buffs 
  all the time.  The option is found in the "Interface" options window
  under "Buff Durations."
- If the current round robin looter closes the loot window without 
  looting money, other players may loot the money.
- Targeting with the tab key has been fixed so hitting tab will acquire 
  creatures in a cone up to 30 yards in front of you or a circle 10 
  yards around you. It no longer only hits targets off to your left.
- When you are using group loot or need before greed looting systems 
  and are looting a bind on pick up item, the "This item will bind to 
  you" yes/no dialog box pops up after you click the "roll dice" 
  button, but before it accepts your roll.
- You can now lock your action bar so spells cannot be dragged out of 
  it while it is locked.  This functionality can be assigned to a 
  hotkey toggle in the keybindings UI.
- Trading with a player no longer closes his auction interface (you 
  get a busy message).
- Added subclasses to recipes in the auction house interface 
  (tailoring, leatherworking, etc...)
- A message will be sent to group members if everyone passes on a loot 
  item roll.
- An "unbind" button has been added to the key bindings page.
- Guild names can no longer have consecutive spaces, or start or end 
  with a space.  This prevents confusingly similar guild names such as
  "My Guild" and "My  Guild".
- Added a right-click menu to the social pane for whispering and 
  inviting players into groups.  
- The guild interface remembers whether or not to show offline members 
  between sessions.
- If you are holding down the move forward key, and press the move 
  backwards key, you will stop moving.
- Increased the quest share distance to 10 yards.
- The "|" character will show up in general chat channels.
- You will get informative feedback if you try to share a quest with 
  someone who is already on the quest or has completed it.
- Added UI to the addon customization screen to specify how much memory 
  is available to the scripting system.  
- Added the "date" and "time" functions to the UI scripting system.
- You will see an error message if you tell your pet to attack a target 
  that it can't find a path to.
- If you are sitting and press a turn key, you will stand up and start 
  turning.  
- Riding Kodos have new icons for when you are mounted.
- NPC chat log color changed to light yellow by default instead of gray, 
  which was not very readable.
- If you have files in the Interface\FrameXML folder, they will be 
  moved to Interface\FrameXML.old after a patch.  
- After the game is patched, you will be prompted to disable addons 
  that are out of date.  
- Added IsMovable(), SetMovable(), IsResizable(), SetResizable() member 
  functions to frames in the scripting system.  
- Added the "pcall" and "xpcall" functions to the UI scripting system.
- The .toc file for addons supports a new keyword: "DefaultState," 
  which can be enabled or disabled, and specifies whether or not an 
  addon is enabled or disabled by default when first installed.
 
 World Environment
- The bridges in northern Stranglethorn Vale are now fixed so they will 
  not dismount you when you ride across them.
- The names of many more points of interest have been added to various
  area maps.
- The Ashenvale, Felwood, and Azshara Crater areas are using a new 
  graveyard system that should help to place dead characters at 
  appropriate graveyards.
- Fixed several places throughout the world where monsters and 
  profession nodes were spawning underground, floating or inside of 
  objects.
- You can now design guild tabards in Ironforge and Thunder Bluff.
- Characters dying in the instanced portions of Blackfathom Deeps, 
  Scholomance, Maraudon, Onyxia's Lair, and Ragefire Chasm will now 
  correctly receive a corpse marker in the minimap and see the message 
  letting them know that they need to enter the instance before they 
  will be able to resurrect.
- The Argent Dawn base at the southern edge of the Western Plaguelands 
  is now named Chillwind Camp.
- Quartermaster Miranda Breechlock in Eastern Plaguelands is now in a 
  more accessible position. 
- Krinkle Goodsteel in Gadgetzan no longer repairs durability damage.  
  His brother, Wrinkle Goodsteel, and his friend Blizrik Buckshot, who 
  share a nearby shop, are still more than happy to provide their 
  durability repair services.
- Reagent Vendors have been added to Feathermoon Stronghold and Camp 
  Mojache in Feralas.
- Added a mailbox to the Darnassus Bank.
   
 Flight Paths
- The following flight times have been reduced:
   * Auberdine - Talonbranch Glade
   * Thunder Bluff - Orgrimmar
   * Theramore (Dustwallow Marsh) - Nijel's Point (Desolace)
- The following flight paths have been added:
   * Gadgetzan - Brackenwall Village
   * Gadgetzan - Valor's Rest (Silithus)
   * Gadgetzan - Camp Mojache
   * Gadgetzan - Crossroads
   * Orgrimmar - Everlook
  
 Bug Fixes
- Fixed framerate problem with UI modifications that use overlapping 
  buttons.
- Hunter pets immediately gain training points when they level up.
- Creatures that are quickly respawning to repopulate an area will 
  often wait a few seconds after they spawn before attacking 
  players.
- Fixed bug where Seal Fate and Blood Frenzy were giving two combo 
  points instead of one.
- You can no longer disenchant an item while you have the disenchant 
  loot window open for another item, which caused you to lose the 
  original item and its loot.
- Fixed bug where Primal Frenzy was giving 10 rage instead of five.
- Fixed bug where melee weapon abilities were causing durability 
  damage to ranged weapons.
- Fixed a bug where abilities that give extra attacks, like the paladin
  Reckoning talent, could cause the following swing to take longer than 
  it should.
- Fixed a bug where instant melee attacks were not blockable.
- Fixed a bug where "On Next Swing" melee attacks (e.g. Heroic Strike)
  that were blocked were fully blocked instead of having their damage 
  reduced by the block amount.
- Fixed a bug where off-hand attacks were being skipped when using 
  "On Next Swing" melee attacks.
- Fixed a bug where Ammo Pouch and Quiver bonuses were stacking 
  together.  Now only the better bonus should be considered.
- Fixed a bug where Quivers and Ammo Pouches were granting a larger 
  haste bonus than intended in some cases.
- Items like the Eye of the Beast will correctly increase your spell 
  critical hit chances.
- Players will no longer become stuck behind a structure in the Ruins 
  of Eldarath, Azshara.
- Players will no longer become stuck near the entrance to an ogre 
  mound in the Mo'Grosh Stronghold in Loch Modan.  
- Players will no longer become stuck in a steep location in Forest 
  Song, Ashenvale. 
- Players will no longer fall through the ground in a cave location in 
  Duskwood.
- Players will no longer fall through the ground at the Cauldron area 
  of the Searing Gorge.
- Players can no longer gain access to Zul'Gurub through Duskwood.
- Turning in a guild charter signed by a player who later joins 
  another guild no longer destroys the charter.  You get it back and 
  have to get a replacement signature.
- Turning in a guild charter with the same name as an existing guild 
  will no longer destroy the charter.  You can then rename your charter 
  and turn it in again. 
- Tab targeting works properly now.
- Fixed exploit allowing non-grouped players to remove other players 
  from groups.
- Hyperlinks for wrapped items no longer show random property of the 
  wrapped item.
- Fixed bug with incorrect minimum bid display when outbid while 
  monitoring your auctions at the auction house.
- The auction interface now displays the gold, silver, and copper 
  values for all items, even if those values are zero.  This should 
  make it more difficult to "hide" an item that costs several gold 
  among items that only cost several silver, for example.
- Items with charges now work properly from the action bar.
- Removed unnecessary happiness icon for warlock pets
  Self-casting (ALT+action button) when your current target is out of 
  range works properly now.
- The quest NPC Khan Jehn no longer becomes confused and unresponsive.
- The stove at Sentinel Hill in Westfall can be used for cooking.
- Campfires amongst the murloc encampments in Dreadmurk Shore, 
  Dustwallow Marsh can now be used for cooking.
- Fixed a problem with the Horde flight path from Light's Hope Chapel 
  in Eastern Plaguelands to the Undercity.
- You will now properly receive COD payments and returned mail from 
  those on your ignore list.
- Fixed item links from the character inspect window.
- Fixed item links from beyond the first page of the loot window.
- Fixed a bug allowing a guild master to promote himself to guild 
  master, which incorrectly set the guild master as an officer, leaving 
  the guild without a leader.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.2.4 (2005-02-22)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
- We have deployed a client-side change that should improve 
  performance when large numbers of players are gathered in a small 
  area of the world. No other changes are included with this emergency 
  patch.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.2.3 (2005-02-15)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  PvP Duels
  Dueling across factions remains intact in the patch, in consideration
  of players' desires to duel members of the opposing faction.
  
  *This is a minor patch to address localization issues discovered 
  during the European beta test. These changes affect localized text 
  strings for French and German versions of the game only, and players 
  in other regions will not see any changes to the game.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.2.2 (2005-02-15)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Paladin
  Seal of the Crusader: Fixed a bug where damage per swing was 
  increasing instead of decreasing when Seal of the Crusader was active.
  This resulted in a dramatic increase in damage per second (DPS) that 
  was unintended.  The tooltip for the spell displays the intent of 
  the spell:

  "Fills the Paladin with the spirit of a crusader, granting additional 
  attack power.  The Paladin also attacks faster, but deals less damage 
  with each attack."

  The overall increase in DPS from Seal of the Crusader should only 
  result from the increase in attack power and not from the increase in 
  attack speed.  We understand this is a significant decrease in the 
  power of this spell, but was a necessary bug fix to ensure both 
  overall game balance and the viability of different Paladin Seals.


  Localization
- Various text strings and audio have been corrected for the French and
  German versions of the game.


  Macs
- Fixed a bug that incorrectly enabled the vertex animation shader 
  option on some GPU's that do not support it. This bug was causing 
  player character models in-game and in the character selection screen 
  to appear invisible or distorted.  The fix should benefit users with 
  NVIDIA GeForce 2MX or 4MX GPU's and ATI Radeon 7000/7500 GPU's.  It 
  should no longer be necessary to manually turn off the vertex 
  animation feature on these systems - it should now be off and 
  disabled automatically.


  Bug Fixes
- Group loot has been fixed to work as originally intended. It will now
  work exactly like round robin does, with the exception that when an 
  item of threshold level or above drops, it will use the auto-rolling 
  system. (Prior to this fix, when in group loot mode, the round robin 
  system was only being used for items (all players could loot coins), 
  which was rather confusing).
- Fixed a group loot permission bug that was telling players they did 
  not have permission to loot.
- Fixed a bug that was causing the game to freeze when scrolling 
  through auctions in the Auction House.
- Murlocs play the drown animation when they die underwater now.
- Onyxia correctly hovers instead of standing in midair.
- You can target vocal emotes again.
- Pets and summoned creatures attacking enemies will now tap the 
  enemies for their owners.
- Fixed a bug with Troll Shamans and the Berserk ability. Troll Shamans 
  can only go Berserk when they are in the wounded state.
- Rogues now correctly gain Lockpicking skill from items picked in the 
  trade window.
- Quests that require you to follow/escort an NPC will only complete 
  when you arrive at the designated area.
- Horde and Alliance members cannot duel with each other regardless of 
  realm type.
- Herbs and mineral nodes will remain active if they are not fully 
  emptied.
- Fixed a bug that was giving higher damage-per-second (DPS) to 
  Steelarrow Crossbow and Blackcrow than was intended.
- Sell prices on Hypnotic Blade, Illusionary Rod, Mantle of Doan, and 
  Robe of Doan have been lowered.
- Players who have completed the quest to summon Kirtonos may now 
  obtain the Blood of Innocents from Doctor Theolen Krastinov.
- The tooltip for the Warrior's Intercept ability has been updated to 
  reflect the proper rage cost. Using Intercept now requires 10 rage, 
  not 15 rage. The tooltip now accurately reflects that.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.2.1 (2004-12-21)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bug Fixes

- Rolling for items in the French and German will now work properly.
- Resolved an issue with looting in click to move mode that could cause crashes.
- Performance issues occurring with certain CPUs have been resolved.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.2.0 (2004-12-21)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Happy Holidays!
  The holidays are here and the citizens of Azeroth are celebrating the 
  occasion with festive decorations and winter time activities.  Keep an
  eye out for some fun and exciting surprises throughout the world!


 New Dungeon - Maraudon
  In the vast gray of Desolace lies the earthen tomb of Zaetar, fallen 
  Keeper of the Grove and son of Cenarius.  Zaetar rejected his Keeper 
  heritage when he joined with the princess of the chaotic earth 
  elementals, Theradras. Their unholy union gave birth to the misshapen 
  and cursed centaur, who promptly slew their father for his part in 
  their misbegotten creation. Fearful of Cenarius' wrath, the 
  grief-stricken Theradras sequestered her dead lover's body in her 
  secret sanctuary, the Crystal Caverns of Therramok, where she watches 
  over him to this day. Travelers who come to Desolace have little 
  trouble spotting Zaetar's tomb, for the blessing of nature that 
  permeates his being transformed his resting place into a verdant 
  paradise of flora and tranquil pools. Today, this tomb is now trodden 
  by the hooves of Zaetar's children, who have claimed this great cavern 
  as their sacred stronghold Maraudon.

  Maraudon, a level 40-49 dungeon in Desolace, is now open and ready for
  business.


 Cloak & Helm Graphics
  There are now interface options that let you not display your helm 
  and/or cloak on your character. These options will allow a player to wear a 
  cloak or helm, but not have it show up in the game world. The check 
  boxes to control this functionality are in the Options menu under 
  "Interface Options."


 General
- Players will now receive credit for killing a monster even if 
  they die during battle.
- Players will now be able to purchase and train mounts from other 
  races in their faction.  However, you will first need to obtain 
  "exalted" reputation status with that race in order to do so.  
  Mounts of the opposing faction are not available for purchase.
- A "Looking for Group" channel has been added. Additional improvements 
  in looking for group functionality will be added in future patches.
- Daze chance has been reduced in degrees depending on the level of the 
  monster versus the level of the player.  Thus, a monster will have a 
  better chance to Daze a player equal in level than it would Dazing a 
  player five levels higher.
- If you die in Molten Core, you will now be able to retrieve your 
  corpse at the Blackrock Depths instance line.
- Several instance bosses and sub-bosses have had their levels slightly 
  lowered.
- Giant Clams in the Vile Reef now drop Blue Pearls.
- Spell Reflection no longer reflects abilities.
- You can initiate a trade by dropping money onto a player.
- You can no longer select targets while under the effects of charm.
- Most non-elite creatures in non-instanced areas of the world have had 
  their hit points slightly increased starting from level 20.
- Messages in the chat window provide feedback when you are getting 
  drunk or sober.
- Skill gain messages will no longer appear for auto-ranking class 
  skills when you gain a level.
- Training costs for all classes are in the process of being rebalanced.  
  For this patch, training costs have been adjusted for the Rogue and 
  Warlock classes and we will be making similar adjustments to all 
  classes in the future.


 Talents
- Damage bonus for the Warrior's One-Handed Weapon Specialization 
  (Protection tab) increased to 2% per rank.
- Amount of threat generated by Shield Bash when Shield Discipline is 
  active has been increased.
- Mortal Strike changed to deal weapon damage + a flat amount (85, 110, 
  135, 160) instead of percentage-based damage.  Additional ranks 
  available on Warrior trainers.
- A bug causing the Hurricane talent to not require channeling has 
  been fixed. This spell now correctly requires channeling.


 Player versus Player
- Gurubashi Arena - The arena in Stranglethorn Vale has been changed so 
  that free-for-all PvP will only take place on the floor of the arena, 
  and no longer in the stands or on the entrance ramp.  Please keep in 
  mind that on PvP realms, members of the opposite faction can still 
  attack you anywhere in the arena because Stranglethorn Vale is a 
  contested area.
- There is now a short countdown before a duel starts.


 Professions
- Fishing for high-level zones has been restored.
- Monetary value of fished items sold to vendors has been significantly 
  reduced.
- Chances of acquiring green weapons and armor from fishing have been 
  reduced.
- Fishing profession now requires a minimum character level, like the 
  other professions do.  Any character who already has a fishing 
  profession past the intended level will not be affected.
- The recipes for Heavy Mageweave Bandage, Runecloth Bandage, and Heavy 
  Runecloth Bandage can be learned by visiting your faction's Artisan 
  First Aid questgiver.
- Sell prices on Runecloth Bandages and Heavy Runecloth Bandages have 
  been reduced.
- Expert First Aid books moved to a more appropriate vendor for the 
  Horde. New vendor is still within the same general area as the 
  previous one.
- Spider Sausage added to cooking trainers.
- Negative effect on Fletcher's Gloves has been changed.
- Alchemists' Stone effects have been changed.
- Gnomish Death Ray ingredients have been changed.
- Small Spider Legs drops have been increased to aid night elf cooks.
- Embossed Leather Boots are now correctly marked as Soulbound.
- Enchant 2H Weapon with Intellect is now correctly giving +3 to 
  Intellect.
- Enchanter's Cowl minimum level to use set to 28 instead of 38, as was 
  originally intended.
- Decrepit Darkhounds are now skinnable.
- Bloodstone Ore was made easier to mine.


 Items
- The damage effect on Deathblow, Diabolic Skiver, and Pendulum of Doom 
  is now considered physical damage instead of Shadow damage.
- Area effect of Piccolo of the Flaming Fire has been reduced.
- Common shields sold at the shops have had their levels shifted to 
  provide for a greater variety of choices.
- The damage effect from Circle of Flame no longer gets increased by 
  items with fire bonuses.
- Area effect on Explosive Rockets has been reduced.
- Damage over time effect on Demonshear should no longer be increased 
  by items with Shadow bonuses.
- Effects from Stormstout, Trogg Ale, Raptor Punch, and Keg of 
  Thunderbrew Lager no longer stack.
- Enriched Manna Biscuit now regenerates mana correctly.
- Wolfmane Wristguards are now Uncommon instead of Common.
- Lowered stats and armor on the Forcestone Buckler, which is rewarded 
  from the Compendium of the Fallen quest. Existing Forcestone Bucklers 
  have not been modified.
- Smokey's Explosive Launcher and Smokey's Fireshooter from When Smokey 
  Sings, I get Violent quest have been improved. Additional item reward 
  added to this quest as well.
- Heart of the Scale should apply the correct Fire resistance now.
- Fixed a bug that caused Wildheart Boots to have duplicate stats.
- Loamflake Bracers now have stats.
- Effect on Cloak of Flames has been reduced.
- Dog Training Gloves are now Uncommon instead of Common.
- Murkgill Murlocs in Stranglethorn no longer drop Encrusted Tail Fin.
- Fixed texture on Rageclaw Belt to look like a belt instead of pants.
- Armor values for some Leather and Mail armor between levels 15 - 36 
  have been slightly changed to address an error with armor values.


 Quests
- Many Stranglethorn Vale quests had their experience rewards changed 
  to be more in line with the difficulty of the quests. Some 
  Stranglethorn Vale quests were also increased in difficulty, due to 
  increased kill requirements or balance changes to the quest target 
  creatures. The Green Hills of Stranglethorn and Big Game Hunter 
  quests also now reward different items upon completion.
- Two new quests added to Desolace involving the Kodo Caravan.
- Number of centaur required to kill to unleash Warlord Krom'zar in 
  the Barrens Counterattack! quest has been reduced to 20.
- Time limit for the Counterattack! quest has been increased to 20 
  minutes.
- Thazz'ril's Pick is now easier to spot.
- Bloodfury quest in Stonetalon Mountains is now marked elite.
- Catch of the Day quest in Desolace now requires 2 Bloodfish instead 
  of the previous 5.
- New quest rewards added to the Allegiance to the Old Gods quest in 
  Ashenvale.
- Wildhunter Cloak reward item from the Ashenvale Hunt quest has been 
  improved.
- Vagash in Dun Morogh now properly shows his Elite status.
- The Encrusted Tail Fin quest item now only drops off the Saltscale 
  Murlocs in Stranglethorn. 
- The Bloodfury Ripper's Remains quest item now only drops off the 
  Bloodfury Ripper in Stonetalon Mountain.
- The Blueleaf Tubers requirement of the Barrens’ Blueleaf Tuber quest 
  was decreased to 6.
- Quest text for the Elemental War quest is changed.  It no longer 
  implies that a choice of rewards is available. 
- The Summoning Shadra quest level has been increased from 50 to 55, 
  to reflect the level of Shadra. 
- Quest related drop items from A Sample of Slime quest and a Batch of 
  Ooze quest have been reduced in value.


 Druids
- Entangling Roots: Rank 4 moved to level 38.
- New Spell: Gift of the Wild (Level 50) - Longer lasting Mark of the 
  Wild spell that buffs the entire group.  Requires a reagent to cast.  
  (Spell is available via loot drop only.)
- Bear Form: Armor bonus increased from 65% to 180%.
- Dire Bear Form: Armor bonus increased from 125% to 360%.
- Hibernate: Players now have an increasing chance to break free of the 
  effect, such that it is unlikely the effect will last more than 15 
  seconds.


 Hunters
- Hunters can no longer sit while under the effects of Feign Death.
- Disengage will cause the Hunter's target to immediately check for a 
  new target.
- Hunters will no longer show mana while they are under the effects of 
  Feign Death.
- Claw: Ranks 3-8 focus costs increased to match ranks 1-2.
- Beasts under the effect of Beast Lore will now display whether they 
  are tameable or not.
- Pets: Bite and Claw tooltips now list the damage that is dealt when 
  the pet is content.  Actual damage is unchanged.
- Scare Beast: Beasts now have an increasing chance to break free of 
  the effect, such that it is unlikely the effect will last more than 
  15 seconds.


 Mages
- Portals: Each portal spell now has an individual cooldown.
- Polymorph: Players now have an increasing chance to break free of 
  the effect, such that it is unlikely the effect will last more than 
  15 seconds.


 Paladins
- Sense Undead: No longer available via the trainer; quest reward only.


 Priests
- Power Word: Shield: Now usable on party members only.
- New Spell: Prayer of Fortitude (Level 48) - Longer lasting Power 
  Word: Fortitude spell that buffs the entire group. Requires a reagent 
  to cast.  (Spell is available via loot drop only.)
- Mind Control: Can no longer be cast on tapped targets.


 Rogues
- Backstab will automatically target the nearest enemy if no target is 
  selected.
- Distract is now effective against creatures that are already distracted.
- Sap: Players now have an increasing chance to break free of the 
  effect, such that it is unlikely the effect will last more than 15 
  seconds.
- Training costs adjusted. Total training cost was decreased.
- Vanish will now break root and slow effects.


 Shaman
- Earthbind Totem: Added a 15-second cooldown.


 Warlocks
- Warlock demons have a wide selection of names based on the demon 
  type. This only affects new demons; existing demons will keep their 
  names.
- Warlocks can no longer kill players in duels.
- Death Coil won't give health until it actually hits the target.
- Death Coil will only give the amount of health that it actually 
  drained from the target.
- Create Soulstone: Reduced the Soul Shard cost from two shards to one 
  shard.
- Curse of Shadow: Increased duration from two minutes to five minutes.
- Curse of the Elements: Increased duration from two minutes to five 
  minutes.
- Fear: Players now have an increasing chance to break free of the 
  effect, such that it is unlikely the effect will last more than 15 
  seconds.
- Devour Magic (Felhunter): Fixed a bug where the felhunter would be 
  healed every time the spell was used, in addition to the healing 
  gained from successful dispelling.
- Tainted Blood (Felhunter): The reactive effect no longer causes 
  threat.
- Training costs adjusted.  Total training cost was decreased.
- Enslave Demon: Can no longer be cast on tapped targets.



 Warriors
- Warriors will start swinging after performing a Slam attack.
- New Ability: Pummel (Berserker Stance) (Level 38) - Instant attack 
  that causes damage and interrupts spellcasting for a short duration.
- Shield Bash: No longer usable in Berserker Stance.
- Intercept: Cost reduced from 15 rage to 10 rage, damage reduced 
  accordingly.
- Bloodrage: Now generates 10 rage immediately and 10 rage across the 
  duration.
- Improved Bloodrage: Now reduces the health cost of Bloodrage by 25% 
  (rank 1) and 50% (rank 2).
- Berserker Stance: Now increases critical strike chance by 3% instead 
  of granting 10% melee haste.  Extra damage taken reduced from 20% to 
  10%.


 Mac
- The vertex and pixel shader based graphic options have been 
  reactivated on certain combinations of drivers and GPU hardware. As 
  Apple releases future improvements to drivers we will continue to 
  re-test and re-activate features on a case by case basis.  A more 
  detailed list of which driver/hardware combinations are enabled for 
  shader capabilities, along with any known bugs will be posted on 
  the Tech Support forum.  Further optimization work on the client is 
  ongoing, and we welcome your feedback at wowmacteam123@blizzard.com.
- Added reverb to sound effects when a player is in enclosed spaces.


 User Interface
- The Minimap arrows that point to locations/players/etc. are now 
  easier to see.
- Tooltip information on players and monsters in the game has been 
  expanded.
- Alternative keyboard types (such as Dvorak) will now work correctly.
- Macros that cast spells will show spell feedback (e.g. cooldowns, 
  etc.) on the action bar.
- Lua single line comments now work in script blocks embedded in XML 
  files.
- There is a new user interface to enable and disable add-ons for the 
  current account, available at the character selection screen.
- FontString has a new attribute, "maxLines,” which is used to limit 
  the number of lines the FontString will render.
- Any text that goes beyond the extents of a FontString will be 
  truncated and replaced with "..."


 Miscellaneous
- When a player breaks the surface of the water going up (i.e. heading 
  out of the water), the camera will move to the above-water position 
  regardless of whether or not the player is holding down the right 
  mouse button.
- The visual effect for unlearning talents will happen after you accept 
  the dialog instead of immediately.


 Bug Fix
- A bug with bandages has been fixed.  Previously, only the lowest rank 
  bandage (Linen Bandage) was working correctly in that it brought up a 
  channeling bar and required you to remain still while bandaging.  All 
  of the other bandage types (Heavy Linen through Heavy Runecloth) were 
  working incorrectly, but have been fixed to operate the same way that 
  Linen Bandages do.
- Cenarion Vindicators no longer summon Forces of Nature as quickly.
- Severed Dreamers no longer summon Nightmares as quickly.
- Several elite creatures that were missing their elite tags have been 
  fixed.
- Will of the Forsaken is no longer grayed out on the action bar while 
  you are fleeing.
- The Emerald Dragon Whelp will assist you when summoned.
- Aquatic creatures will no longer eventually teleport to you if you 
  harass them from land.
- Undead players will no longer be invisible when they first log in 
  after watching the intro cinematic.
- Fixed the rotating animations of the crystals in Un'Goro Crater.
- Reginald Windsor's yell can be heard during The Great Masquerade.
- Kodos in the Barrens will no longer stomp incessantly while in combat.
- The Ward of Laze is now summoned at a more appropriate level, instead 
  of level one.
- Some elite creatures in outdoor areas of the world had higher than 
  normal experience modifiers, and were corrected to award the proper 
  amount of experience.
- Rare creatures in many of the higher level outdoor zones will now 
  use their appropriate combat abilities.
- Autoloot has been fixed to work with skinning.
- Fixed durability display on vendor buyback items.
- Some creatures in the outdoor world had much less armor than 
  intended. This has been corrected.
- A bug causing war stomp to not affect some targets within melee range 
  has been fixed.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.1.2 (2004-12-6)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Removed time zone tabs from realm list for U.S., all servers now appear 
  in one list.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch 1.1.1 (2004-11-17)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Durability
  Item durability costs have been greatly decreased for Superior (blue)
  and Epic (purple) items.  


 Improved Unstuck 
  We've added an auto-unstuck feature that you can use prior to 
  petitioning a GM.  You can use this feature in situations where you 
  are caught in a part of the terrain and cannot get out.  You can find 
  the unstuck option by clicking on the "Help Request" button found 
  on the bottom right hand side of the user interface.


 Spirit Healer
  Using the Spirit Healer now results in a 25% loss in durability for a 
  player's equipped gear and items in inventory, instead of the 
  previous 100% loss.  The length of resurrection sickness suffered 
  from using the Spirit Healer has also been decreased to a maximum of 
  10 minutes.


 Reagents
  Reagent requirements have been removed from the following spells:
  Druid: Mark of the Wild
  Mage: Arcane Intellect
  Priest: Power Word: Fortitude


 General
- The Daze effect has been reworked to have a smaller chance of 
  occurring against players level one to 29.  The chance of a 
  successful Daze effect against players 30 and above remains the same.

 Talents 
- The Improved Renew talent has been reduced in effectiveness per rank.
- The effect chance of Seal of Command has been reduced slightly.
- Redoubt now lasts either 10 seconds or five blocks, whichever comes 
  first.  
- The effect of Improved Moonfire has been reduced per rank.


 Druid
- Bear Form has been improved to hold aggro more effectively.
- Growl: removed rage cost and global cooldown.
- Cower: increased the effect, added a cooldown.


 Paladin
- Judgment: Moved to level 4.
- Divine Protection: Moved to level 6.
- Purify: Moved to level 8.
- Seal of the Crusader: Now introduced at level 6.


 Rogue
- Feint: increased the effect, added a cooldown.


 Shaman
- New Spell: Reincarnation (Level 30). Reincarnation is a passive 
  ability that will give you to option of letting you resurrect 
  yourself once every half hour upon death.


 Warlock
- Inferno: Now dismisses your pet before casting to allow the Infernal 
  to start Enslaved.  Useable outdoors only.


 Warrior
- Defensive Stance has been improved to hold aggro more effectively.
- Taunt: removed rage cost and global cooldown.


 Bug Fixes
- Night Elf characters in Wisp form will now have correct collision 
  detection.
- Damage modifiers will now be calculated before armor points are 
  considered, instead of after.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft Client Patch (2004-11-07)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Racial Traits
  Racial traits are now available for all races.  Each race receives at 
  least 4 traits (several passive and at least one active trait per 
  race).  Undead racial traits have changed to be more consistent with 
  the new traits and Undead players are now considered Humanoid targets 
  rather than Undead targets.  The following is a full list of traits:

 Dwarf      
  Stoneform: Activate to gain immunity to poison, disease, and bleed 
  Gun Specialization: Increase Gun Skill
  Frost Resistance: Increase Cold Resistance
  Treasure Finding:  Activate to see treasure chests on mini map - 
  lasts until canceled - no cooldown

 Gnome      
  Escape Artist: Activate to break out of a Root or Snare effect 
  Expansive Mind: Increase Intelligence
  Arcane Resistance: Increase Arcane Resistance
  Engineering Specialist: Increase skill bonus to Engineering

 Human      
  Perception: Activate to increase stealth detection radius 
  The Human Spirit: Increase Spirit 
  Diplomacy: Bonus to faction point gain
  Sword Specialization: Increase Sword skill

 Night Elf     
  Shadowmeld: Activate while immobile and out of combat to enter 
  stealth mode
  Quickness: Dodge chance increased
  Wisp Spirit: Become a wisp when dead with movement speed increase 
  Nature Resistance: Increase Nature Resistance

 Orc     
  Blood Fury: Activate to increase Strength
  Hardiness: Increase resistance to stun & knockout effects
  Command: Pet melee damage increased
  Axe Specialization: Increase to Axe skill

 Tauren     
  War Stomp: Activate to stun opponents
  Endurance: Max Health increased 
  Cultivation: Increase skill bonus to Herbalism
  Nature Resistance: Increase Nature Resistance

 Troll      
  Berserking: Activate when "Wounded" to increase melee & 
  spellcasting speed 
  Regeneration: Increase health regen bonus
  Beast Slaying: Increase damage bonus to Beasts
  Throwing Weapon Specialization: Increase Throwing Weapon skill.

 Undead     
  Will of the Forsaken: Activate to become immune to fear, sleep, 
  and charm effects 
  Cannibalize: Increase health regeneration while consuming a corpse 
  Underwater Breathing: Underwater breath increased 
  Shadow Resistance:  Increase Shadow Resistance


 New Raid Encounters
  Rumors of Onyxia, an enormous black dragon, have been heard through
  out Azeroth. Be sure to bring many brave warriors for she won’t
  take kindly to intruders in her lair. Both factions will need to
  complete unique, and challenging quests to gain access to the
  Onyxia encounter.  **During the beta testing there will be a 
  temporary placeholder vendor who sells keys to Onyxia’s lair for 
  testing purposes. 

  Discovered in the heart of Blackrock Mountain beyond the Depths, 
  lies the Molten Core.  Within the Molten Core lives a multitude of 
  ancient and powerful evil.  Adventurers be ware, for the dangers found 
  within the Molten Core are many and takes many forms.

  **Raid loot is being worked on and temporary loot has been placed in 
  raid encounters 


 New Kodo mounts!
  There is but one creature in all of Kalimdor that possesses the 
  strength and stamina to bear a tauren rider into battle: the 
  majestic kodo beast. Swifter and slightly smaller than their 
  wild cousins, kodo mounts nevertheless demonstrate the same 
  resilience and fearlessness found in their untamed brethren, traits 
  that serve them well when bearing their equally resolute riders. It 
  is said that only the most virtuous of tauren can win the affection 
  of a kodo war mount, for these mighty beasts only serve those that 
  approach them with honor and respect in 
  their hearts.

  Tauren players will no longer have the Plainsrunning ability, due 
  to the availability of Kodo mounts!  Tauren players can purchase the 
  Kodo mount at Bloodhoof village.

  **Currently there is an active bug that prevents players from 
  purchasing mounts from different races regarding of reputation, this 
  bug will be addressed in the next patch.


 General
- Higher level dungeon monsters (level 30+) have had their experience 
  values increased.
- Experience needed to gain levels from level 30+ has been increased 
  (to compensate for the dungeon monster change).
- On death, all eqipped items will lose 10% durability.
- Durability loss through fighting has been decreased (mainly to 
  accommodate the new penalty for dying)
- The penalty for using a Spirit Healer has been changed - there is no 
  longer any experience loss, instead all items (equipped and 
  inventory) will take 100% durability loss and the character will gain 
  resurrection sickness for a duration that scale according to level.
- Spells that activate (proc) on kill will work on all players, but only 
  monsters that would give experience points.
- All spears are now polearms.
- Polearm proficiency can now be learned by Hunters, Paladins, 
  Warriors.
- Spear proficiency has been removed.
- Minimum range on abilities now account for size of target and 
  attacker.
- Armor can't be swapped out while in combat.  Other equipment 
  such as weapons and accessories can still be swapped out.
- Shift-click item info linking has been added to the auction 
  interface.
- You now get a 10% discount at high reputation for buying items, 
  item repair, training costs, and taxi flights.
- Line of sight calculation takes into account creature size.
- Creatures should be more adept at chasing players.
- Spawn animations for game objects are now visible.
- Skills will not increase from use while dueling or engaged in 
  PvP.
- Texture linear filtering is turned on for the user interface.
- Escort NPCs will assist players more often.
- Escort NPCs and guards will no longer follow enemy players 
  around.
- NPCs which are performing work emotes will pause them and turn to
  you when you interact with them.
- The Reanimated Corpse actually falls down now when it plays dead.
- New graveyards have been added to many zones.
- Players will not be able to train and purchase non-race specific 
  mounts.  In the next patch, we plan to implement a system in which 
  players can obtain mounts from other races once they have reached a 
  certain level of reputation with that race.


 Quests
- Onyxia Key Quests for both the Horde and Alliance are in and 
  fully functional.
- Eastern and Western Plaguelands have dozens of new quests.
- Tirion Fordring's questline is now complete.
- New PvP, Raid, and PvP Raid quests are live.
- Quests for Molten Core have been added.
- The completion of a quest may now result in a reputation 
  adjustment of a faction or a group of factions.
- More quests added to Desolace, including several Horde 
  specific quests.
- Horde quests added to Ashenvale, ranging from levels 19-30.
- Hemet Nesingwary and his companions now like Horde players in 
  addition to Alliance players.
- More quests added to Stonetalon.
- More quests added to Blackfathom Deeps.  Blackfathom has been 
  moved to Ashenvale and now has Horde quests.


 PvP
- Mind Control and Hunter's Mark flag you for PvP when used on 
  enemy players.
- Healing and buffing NPCs will not flag you for PvP unless those 
  NPCs are in combat.
- NPCs no longer tap creatures they are fighting.


 Talents
- Paladin talents are now available.
- Hunter talents are now available.


 Auctions
- The current high-bidder's name no longer displays in the auction 
  interface.
- Each time a bid is made on an item, a small amount of time is 
  added to the remaining auction duration.
- Items you are the high bidder on will be indicated as such in the 
  interface.


 Professions
- Leatherworking is now complete, you can make up to 300 
  leatherworking skill items.
- Enchanting is now complete, you can perform enchantments that 
  require up to 300 enchanting skill.
- Engineering is now complete, there are engineering recipes that 
  require up to 300 engineering skill.
- Epic player crafted items that require raiding are now available.
- Skeleton Keys added to blacksmithing.  Smiths can now open locks 
  (though the keys are consumed)
- Expert and above skill tiers for secondary skills are no longer 
  available on trainers, you need to find the books to teach you them.  
  Expert level is on a vendor somewhere in the world, artisan level 
  requires a quest to be completed.
- Elixirs no longer stack with player spells that improve the same 
  attribute
- Enchanting recipes generally require more reagents for 200-250 
  skill items
- Limited Invulnerability Potion Re-added to Alchemy, but at a higher 
  level than it was previously.
- Leatherworking recipes added to let light leather be turned into 
  medium leather, medium leather into heavy and so on.   
- Light leather requirements for some 15-20th leather level items 
  reduced to allow for faster skillup in that range.
- Leatherworking Scorpid Recipes now require 2x the scorpid scales, 
  but scorpids now drop the scales 4x as frequently.
- Light leather now only takes 3 scraps to make instead of 4.
- Starting Leatherworking recipe items improved.
- Medium and Heavy leather now sells for less to vendors.
- Pick pocketing now has a chance of getting you a locked Junkbox, 
  which is a locked item that generally has money in it.
- Ironweb Spider Silk now drops more often and some Tailoring 
  Recipes require less.
- The ingredients required to make some gnomish engineering items 
  were changed.
- Elixirs effects reduced somewhat for the higher level elixirs.
- Dark Iron Armor stats have been changed.
- Living Essence and Essence of Undeath drops decreased.
- Silk and Mageweave cloth now sell for less to vendors.
- All remaining profession trainers who train a single recipe 
  have been turned into vendors.
- Catseye Ultra Goggles and Catseye Elixir reduced in effectiveness.
- Requirements to make blacksmithing recipes annihilator and 
  invulnerable mail increased.
- Artisan Level Fishing, Cooking, and First Aid quests are in the 
  game. Trainers will no longer train artisan level in the 
  aforementioned professions. Players must complete quests to gain 
  artisan levels.


 Pets
- Pets, summons and guardians are not susceptible to charm.
- Pets should be much better at chasing moving targets.
- Pets and summons will use their combat abilities as often as 
  possible.
- When your pet or demon learns new spells and abilities they will 
  show up on the pet action bar.
- Charmed creatures will no longer use their summon spells while 
  charmed.
- The pet action bar is greyed out while the pet is confused or fleeing
- Imps no longer run around aimlessly if you turn off auto-cast for 
  their firebolt.


 Druid
- Removed facing direction requirement from Entangling Roots, Faerire 
  Fire, Hibernate, and Soothe Animal.
- New Spell: Rebirth (Level 20).
- New Ability: Feline Grace (Level 40).
- Bear Form abilities that target one or more enemies now generate 
  additional threat.
- Enrage: Cooldown increased.
- Growl: Now gives the target enough threat to attack you, cooldown 
  added.
- Hibernate: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Mark of the Wild: Ranks 5, 6, and 7 now require reagents.

 Hunter
- Glimpse of Instincts: Removed.
- Outdoorsmanship skill line renamed Survival.
- Ranged Combat skill line renamed Marksmanship.
- Removed facing requirement from Hunter's Mark and Scare Beast.
- Aspect of the Cheetah: Speed increased.
- Aspect of the Pack: Speed increased.
- Concussive Shot: No longer causes additional threat, duration and 
  cooldown slightly increased, mana cost reduced.
- Disengage: Effect boosted, cooldown added.
- Hunter's Mark: Duration increased, dispels itself if the Hunter dies.
- Mongoose Bite: Damage increased, mana cost increased.
- Scare Beast: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Wing Clip: Slow effect now scales with level.
- Feign Death: Duration increased.
- New Spell: Track Beasts (Level 1).
- New Spell: Track Humanoids (Level 10).
- New Spell: Track Undead (Level 18).
- New Spell: Track Hidden (Level 24).
- New Spell: Track Elementals (Level 26).
- New Spell: Track Demons (Level 32).
- New Spell: Track Giants (Level 40).
- New Spell: Track Dragonkin (Level 50).
- New Spell: Distracting Shot (Level 12).
- New Spell: Aspect of the Wild (Level 46).

 Mage
- Blink should work much more reliably and will not stop your movement.
- Removed facing requirement from Counterspell, Detect Magic, and 
  Polymorph.
- Polymorph: Now dismounts the enemy target, increased the chance of 
  breaking early.
- Blizzard: Deals its damage in more frequent intervals.
- Arcane Intellect: Ranks 4 and 5 now require reagents.
- Teleport: Now requires a reagent.
- Portal: Now requires a reagent.
- Slow Fall: Now requires a reagent.

 Paladin
- Retribution Aura: Moved to level 16.
- Judgement: Moved to level 50, renamed Holy Wrath.
- Removed facing requirement from Hammer of Justice and Turn Undead.
- Cleanse: Moved to level 42, mana cost increased.
- Holy Light: Causes less threat, heal effect and mana cost increased.
- Purify: Mana cost increased.
- Turn Undead: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Holy Strike: Removed.
- Crusader Strike: Removed.
- Seal of Reckoning: Removed.
- Healing Aura: Removed.
- Dominance Aura: Removed.
- Wisdom Aura: Removed.
- Redemption: Removed.
- Resurrection: renamed Redemption, no longer useable in combat.
- **All Seals renamed Blessings.  Several new spells have been added, 
  which now use the naming convention "Seal".
- New Spell: Seal of the Crusader (Level 12).
- New Spell: Seal of Justice (Level 22).
- New Spell: Seal of Light (Level 30).
- New Spell: Seal of Wisdom (Level 38).
- New Spell: Flash of Light (Level 20).
- New Spell: Judgement (Level 10).
- New Spell: Blessing of Might (Level 8).
- New Spell: Blessing of Wisdom (Level 14).
- New Spell: Blessing of Light (Level 40).
- New Spell: Concentration Aura (Level 22).
- New Spell: Divine Intervention (Level 30).
- Resistance Aura: Split up into 3 new spells...Shadow Resistance Aura 
  (Level 28), Frost Resistance Aura (Level 32), and Fire Resistance Aura 
  (Level 36).
- Seal of Fury has changed significantly.
- Seal of Righteousness has changed significantly.
- Blessing of Sacrifice: Moved to level 46, now transfers a flat amount 
  of damage per hit, and has replacements.
- Blessing of Salvation: Moved to level 26, duration increased, cooldown 
  removed, effect reduced.
- Blessing of Freedom: Moved to level 18.
- Blessing of Protection: Moved to level 10.

 Priest
- Resurrect spells now use the same timer as when reclaiming your corpse.  
  When a player is resurrected, they will have to wait for a set amount 
  before they can click the accept button.
- Resurrect now teleports you to the location at which the spell was cast, 
  not to the caster's present location.
- Removed facing requirement from Mind Control, Mind Soothe, Shackle 
  Undead and Shadow Word: Pain.
- Resurrection: No longer useable in combat.
- Levitate will now be cancelled if any damage is taken, now requires a 
  reagent.
- Power Word: Fortitude: Ranks 4, 5, and 6 now require reagents.
- Mind Control: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Shackle Undead: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- New Spell: Desperate Prayer (Level 10).  (Dwarf/Human only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Starshards (Level 10).  (Night Elf only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Touch of Weakness (Level 10).  (Undead only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Hex of Weakness (Level 10).  (Troll only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Fear Ward (Level 20).  (Dwarf only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Feedback (Level 20).  (Human only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Elune's Grace (Level 20).  (Night Elf only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Devouring Plague (Level 20).  (Undead only.)  (Quest)
- New Spell: Shadowguard (Level 20).  (Troll only.)  (Quest)

 Rogue
- Vanish will now cancel spells in progress and missiles in flight if 
  they are being cast at the vanished player.
- Poisons: Should now be resistable.
- Removed facing requirement from Blind and Pick Pocket.
- Lockpicking: No longer auto-ranks.  It must be used to improve.
- Sap: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- New Poison: Wound Poison (Level 32).
- New Ability: Safe Fall (Level 40).

 Shaman
- Removed facing requirement from Purge.
- Rebirth: Renamed Ancestral Spirit, no longer useable in combat.
- Water Walking: Now cancelled if any damage is taken, requires reagent.
- Water Breathing: Now requires a reagent.
- Earth Shock: Now causes additional threat.
- Healing Stream Totem: Heals in smaller, more frequent intervals 
  (roughly the same total over time).
- Mana Spring Totem: Restores mana in smaller, more frequent intervals 
  (roughly the same total over time).
- Rockbiter Weapon: Now also makes your melee attacks cause additional 
  threat.
- Windfury Weapon: Much more responsive.
- Windfury Totem: Much more responsive.

 Warlock
- Only party members can participate in rituals.
- Voidwalkers will wait for enemies in the area before casting Suffering.
- Target of summoning ritual must already be in the same instance if 
  caster is in an instance.
- Summoning gives a confirmation dialog to person being summoned.
- Ghosts can no longer be summoned.
- A bug has been fixed in the calculation of total mana for Warlock pets.
- Lash of Pain (Succubus): no longer requires the succubus to be behind 
  the target.
- Seduction (Succubus): Mana cost reduced, increased the chance of 
  breaking early.
- Soulstones: Now soulbound when created, are consumed to store the 
  target's soul.  When that target dies, he may resurrect himself any 
  time up until release.  Cooldown added.
- Removed facing requirement from Banish, Corruption, all Curses, 
  Enslave Demon, and Fear.
- Demon spells are now available as Grimoires from the Demon Trainers in 
  the world.  Purchase the Grimoire and read it while the appropriate 
  demon is summoned to teach it the spell.
- Enslave Demon once again requires a soul shard, increased the chance 
  of breaking early if cast repeatedly on the same target.
- Howl of Terror: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Fear: Increased the chance of breaking early.
- Rain of Fire: Duration, mana cost, and damage slightly reduced, deals 
  its damage in more frequent intervals.
- New Spell (Imp): Phase Shift (Level 12).
- New Spell: Summon Felhunter (Level 30).  (Quest)
- New Spell: Inferno (Level 50).  (Monster Loot)
- New Spell: Curse of Doom (Level 60).
- New Spell: Ritual of Doom (Level 60).  (Monster Loot)

 Warrior
- Inner Rage: Removed.
- Pummel: Removed.
- Heroic Strike: Now available in all Stances, damage increased on some 
  ranks, decreased on others.
- Sunder Armor: Now available in all Stances.
- Shield Bash: Now available in all Stances.
- Hamstring: Now available in Battle and Berserker Stance.
- Rend: Now available in Battle and Defensive Stance, damage slightly 
  increased on some ranks.
- Recklessness: Moved to level 50, moved to Berserker Stance, can be
  cancelled early, now causes the Warrior to take extra damage instead 
  of decreasing armor.
- Bloodrage: Available in all Stances, cooldown increased.
- Cleave: Moved to level 20, available in all Stances, damage reduced.
- Mocking Blow: Moved to level 16, damage increased, replaced more 
  frequently.
- Shield Wall: Moved to level 28.
- Slam: Available in all Stances, damage reduced, casting is pushed back 
  when hit.
- Thunder Clap: Damage increased.
- Defensive Stance: Now reduces damage taken and damage caused instead 
  of increasing Defense skill.
- Intimidating Shout: Moved to level 22, no longer causes the targeted 
  enemy to run in fear, but will cower in fear.  The cowering effect is 
  broken by damage.
- Warrior abilities that target one or more enemies now generate 
  additional threat.
- Taunt: Now gives the target just enough threat to attack you.  
  Cooldown added.
- Berserker Rage: Moved to level 32.
- New Ability: Retaliation (Level 20).
- New Ability: Execute (Level 24).
- New Ability: Intercept (Level 30).
- New Ability: Whirlwind (Level 40).


 Mac
  Shader based options are still disabled on the Mac client and are 
  awaiting release of driver bug fixes from Apple and GPU vendors. We will 
  release a patch to re-enable shader based graphic effects in Mac WoW when 
  that becomes feasible


Bug Fixes
- Monsters with extra dodge chances have been corrected.
- Abilities that activate off critical hits work off critical hits from 
  abilities as well (Blood Craze, Enrage).
- Blessing of salvation correctly affects healing over time spells.
- If you tame the leader of a herd of Kodo with the Kodo Kombobulator the 
  whole herd won't follow you.
- If you close the disenchanting loot pane without looting the item, the 
  Dust or Essence or Shard is automatically looted for you.  (You no 
  longer destroy the enchanted item if you close the loot pane with the 
  results of the disenchantment)


 Miscellaneous
- Vocal emotes now display a normal emote to the chat window, instead of 
  the "Player says..." text.  Voice Emote Audio is unchanged.   
- There is now a checkbox to turn off audio emotes.
- Many boxes and crates ready to be looted have been added around the 
  world.
- Many new rare vendors selling weapons/armor/potions have been added 
  around the world.
